20170301 
Ban of Pepsi, Coca-Cola in Tamil Nadu, and the rise of Indian nationalism 
1-3-2017 
A ban on cola drinks made by multi-national beverage companies such as Pepsi Co and Coca-Cola came into effect in Tamil Nadu from Wednesday, signalling the rise of quick nationalism in India.

Determined to show its support towards Indian companies, the Federation of Tamil Nadu Traders Associations (FTNTA) and the Tamil Nadu Traders Associations Forum (TNTAF), the two largest associations in the state said that it has the support of over a million of retailers of the state.

A FTNTA spokesperson said foreign-made drinks are not good for health and added that the associations will promote Indian soft drinks and juices, and their manufacturing. They would also urge more retailers to push sales of Indian drinks over foreign drinks.

The associations accuse that the cola companies of drawing too much water from the rivers, which they said has impacted irrigation and farming in the state. The pumping of water, the associations said, has depleted water basins and has severely affected farmers during draught.

To put things in context, the gross domestic product (GDP) of Tamil Nadu is $250 billion, the second largest in the country, which has 21% of its contribution from agriculture.

The cola companies did not make any comment on the situation.

Read more

“The logic is flawed because even Indian drinks would need water... It also becomes the battle between the small drinks-maker (Indian companies) and larger multi-nationals. However, any such movement should be started by consumers, and not by the traders,” said brand consultant Harish Bijoor.

Patanjali, by a multi-product company set up by yoga guru-turned-entrepreneur Ramdev has been towing the line of swadeshi for over three year. It talks of desi versus videshi, non-chemical and ayurvedic products, and even burning foreign products.

“There is a greater degree of jingoism in Patanjali, but this movement in Tamil Nadu can very well become a larger nationalistic movement,” said Bijoor.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Make in India and Startup India have their own effect on swadeshi -- one talks of manufacturing in India and the other talks of building more companies out of India. During his election campaign, he talked about creating more jobs, and stopping brain drain.

Modi’s party BJP has its affiliate, the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, that supports India being built by Indians. In the past, the manch had even criticised Modi’s foreign direct investment (FDI) policy.

Read more

Cut to the Tamil Nadu ban, it got a quick fillip during the Jallikatu protests, when the associations said a larger number of youth came out in favour of continuing the bull-taming game.

India is a young country with over half of its population under 25 years of age. To get the youth adopting Indian products would mean opening up a large consumer base, which is largely tilled towards foreign products.

The associations said that helping Indian brands grow will eventually help farmers, with better and larger procurement. 
