20170301 
It’s Kiren Rijiju again, minister tweets video of jawan attacking Afzal sympathisers, JNU 
1-3-2017 
In the middle of a storm over campus violence in Delhi University , minister of state for home Kiren Rijiju posted a jawan’s video on Twitter on Wednesday, giving a fresh twist to the nationalism debate.

In the video, the soldier -- identified as Shriram Gorde -- slammed sympathisers of 2001 Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru, a section of Jawaharlal Nehru University students and critics of the Indian army’s September 29 surgical strike in Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir.

The video tweeted by Rijiju had come up in the public domain.

“We fight against terrorism, Maoists to keep our country safe. But now it looks like the biggest threat is from those who live in this country but give slogans of Bharat murdabad,” Gorde is seen telling a large audience.

“We don’t feel sad to see Afzal Guru being hanged. But we are sad to see people chant slogans that Afzal hum sharminda hai, tere qatil zinda hai,” he adds, referring to a controversial event in JNU last year that triggered a nationwide debate on nationalism.

Pain runs deeper than the Ocean. Very sad that our jawans are forced to speak with heavy heart. pic.twitter.com/1AbLScDnor — Kiren Rijiju (@KirenRijiju) March 1, 2017

This comes in the middle of a political controversy following violent clashes between the Left-backed students’ union and the ABVP over an event in Ramjas College.

“We feel sad when thousands of people come out in support of such people (Guru sympathizers). I feel sad when thousands of people join the funeral procession of a terrorist,” the jawan adds.

The video was shot at an annual weapon display event for schoolchildren organised on December 28 last year.

Gorde, who is from is from the 9 Maratha Infantry and is deployed at Jamnagar, told HT over the phone that he has been attending the function for the last two years and had made a speech on both the occasions.

“I speak from the heart. Whatever I feel about the current situation of the country, I said in my speech. If the current atmosphere continues, the country may face another partition. I expressed my pain. I am a soldier for the last 13 years. I know there is code of conduct for a military man but I said what I had to say. It was cultural programme, and I just expressed what I felt deep in my heart,” Gorde said.

Posting the video, Rijiju tweeted: “Pain runs deeper than the Ocean. Very sad that our jawans are forced to speak with heavy heart.”

The video is seen as a clear attempt to garner public support against opposition parties and a section of the Delhi University students.

The minister, who has continued taking digs at the Lady Shri Ram college student Gurmehar Kaur, has now dug up an old video, barely a few months after a controversy over a social media post by a BSF jawan.

In his social media post, the jawan had complained about low quality of food and was subjected to strict censure. It was, however, not clear, what action the government has taken against Gorde for making such political comments. 
