20170301 
Husband arrested for branding wife with hot iron rod on suspicion of infidelity 
1-3-2017 
Police arrested on Wednesday one person for allegedly branding his wife with a hot iron rod and assaulting her on suspicion of infidelity in Rajasthan’s Udaipur.

The accused, Bhagga Gameti, and his father Lehri Lal committed the crime against the 22-year-old tribal woman at the district’s Gogunda village on Sunday.

The woman suffered burn injuries on her face, legs, chest and genitals.

“We are investigating the case and will arrest the other accused if he too is found guilty during the course of investigation,” said deputy SP, Girwa, Om Kumar.

The incident occurred weeks after state women and child development department decided to appoint protection officers in districts and supervisors in blocks to tackle atrocities against women.

Read more

Though crimes against women, such as dowry deaths, outraging modesty and kidnapping, decreased in the state in 2016, the number of rapes increased by 0.54%, and of harassment by 0.33%, crime branch data shows.

The victim told HT that her husband Bhagga Gameti and father-in-law, Lehri Lal thrashed and branded her after they found a missed call on her mobile phone that led them to believe she was having an extramarital affair.

“They branded my body parts, including private parts, with a hot iron rod and fled from the house when locals raised an alarm on hearing my cries for help,” she said.

The victim said the two men later summoned a caste panchayat and forced her to take her police complaint back.

Police said they had rushed the woman to MB Hospital in Udaipur. She has been discharged from the hospital and is at present living at her parents’ house. She is stated to be in a state of shock.

Meanwhile, State Commission for Women (SCW) chairperson Sumar Sharma sought a report on the incident from Udaipur police.

Bhojraj Singh of Ashray Sewa Sansthan, an NGO, after meeting the victim at the hospital took up the matter with the SCW. Singh said he urged the police to add sections dealing with the attempt to murder in the FIR. 
