20170301 
Pakistan created terror outfits, the ‘monster’ now devouring its creator: India to UN 
1-3-2017 
The main reason for disturbances in Jammu and Kashmir is cross-border terrorism aided and abetted by Pakistan, India said on Wednesday, as the two countries clashed again on the issue at the ongoing session of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva.

Responding to the Pakistan representative’s allegations of rights violations in Jammu and Kashmir, India’s permanent representative, Ajit Kumar, said it was ironic that a country which had earned a reputation as the global epicentre of terrorism was holding forth on the issue.

Read | Investigate 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks again, put Hafiz Saeed on trial: India tells Pakistan

“For the last two decades, the most wanted terrorists of the world have found succour and sustenance in Pakistan…For many years now, Pakistan carried out an intense campaign to destabilise the situation in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir by promoting infiltration and cross-border terrorism, inciting, promoting and glorifying violence and unrest in the Indian state, and raking up the matter through baseless allegations,” he said.

Read more

Earlier, Zahid Hamid, the Pakistani law and justice minister, alleged the "Indian claim" that the situation in Jammu and Kashmir was about terrorism was a false narrative and a "desperate attempt" to divert attention from alleged rights violations.

"The Indian claim that the deteriorating human rights situation in Jammu and Kashmir is an internal affair of India is factually incorrect, legally untenable and in violation of the UN Security Council resolution," Hamid said.

For many years now, Pakistan carried out an intense campaign to destabilise the situation in Jammu and Kashmir by promoting infiltration and cross-border terrorism...

He called India an “occupying power” and said Pakistan was a “recognised party to this internationally recognised issue” under UN resolutions.

Kumar responded: “I would…like to point out that Pakistan’s unwarranted references to UN Security Council resolutions are grossly misleading as Pakistan was required to vacate the parts of the state of Jammu and Kashmir under its illegal and forced occupation.

“Pakistan has created terrorist outfits against India. This monster is now devouring its own creator,” he added.

Read more

Kumar said Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of India and the situation there is an internal matter. The central government and the democratically elected state government, he said, had led a system-wide effort last year to restore normalcy in the wake of Pakistan-supported violent unrest.

Read | It’s time India changed the foreign policy calculus with Pakistan and China

“The robust and mature Indian democracy proved once again that it has sufficiently strong and adequate mechanisms to redress any internal difficulties even if they are incited from outside. Prime Minister of India had announced a $12 billion package which is being fast tracked. Normalcy has returned as 99% of the students of Jammu and Kashmir had taken their high school examinations and schools have reopened,” Kumar said.

The 34th session of the Human Rights Council runs from February 27 to March 24. 
