20170301 
NGT seeks govt reply on extending deadline for enforcing BS-IV emission norms 
1-3-2017 
Amid ambiguity over implementation of BS-IV norms, the National Green Tribunal on Wednesday sought the government’s response on a plea opposing auto industry body SIAM’s call to defer the new emission norms that are to be enforced from April one.

A bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Swatanter Kumar issued notices to the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, Environment Ministry, Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) and Central Pollution Control Board while seeking their responses in two weeks.

The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Dr RK Sharma who said he was aggrieved by the conduct of SIAM for its call to defer the new emission norms and sought extension of time for selling underlying stock of BS-III compliant vehicles.

The plea sought directions that all types of vehicles, even those manufactured this year, should not be permitted to be sold and registered after April 1, 2017 unless they comply with the BS-IV standards.

“Some vehicle manufacturers are lobbying for a relaxation in the deadline for BS-IV norms for flooding the market with their old BS-III vehicles on the ground of alleged unsold inventory. Thus, the vehicle manufacturers seek to sell and register non-BS-IV vehicles even after April 1, 2017,” the plea said.

Last October, the Environment Pollution Control Authority had said it would not allow the sale or registration of any pre-BS-IV vehicles from April 1.

The government had in August 2015 said the sale of four- wheelers not meeting Bharat Stage (BS)-IV emission norms will be barred in India from April 2017 with a view to bring the entire country under the ambit of tighter pollution control standards.

“From April 1, 2017, the mass emission standards for Bharat Stage IV shall come into force all over the country. With this, only those newly manufactured four wheeler vehicles, which are compliant with the BS-IV standards, will be allowed to register and move on roads with effect from the notified dates in the notified areas,” the Road Ministry had said. 
