20170301 
Indian Navy asks Myanmar to send proposal for training facilities 
1-3-2017 
The Indian Navy on Wednesday responded positively to a visiting Myanmar Navy delegation’s request for training facilities, asking the nation to send a proposal.

The request was made by visiting Myanmar Navy (MN) delegation, comprising three officers -- Lt Cdr ThureinTun, Lt Cdr Kyaw Zeya Oo and Lt Ye WintTun.

They are on a four-day official visit to Kochi from February 26 to March 2.

The visit is primarily aimed at familiarising the MN officers on Indian Naval Meteorology and Oceanography (METOC) operational/ training facilities and exploring avenues for defence cooperation in the field.

The delegation called on Chief of Staff, Southern Naval Command, Rear Admiral RJ Nadkarni, who assured them all assistance in terms of training and setting up of meteorological facilities for the Myanmar Navy, a navy release said here.

“He requested the delegation to send a proposal for the Southern Naval Command to take up the same with higher authorities,” it said.

Read more

The officers visited the Indian Naval Meteorological and Analysis Centre, as well as the School of Naval Oceanology and Meteorology, to get an understanding of the meteorological forecasting capabilities, as well as the training imparted on Oceanology and Meteorology by the Indian Navy.

They also visited other training/simulator facilities at Kochi, including Flight and Tactical Simulator, Water Survival Training Facility and other training schools, as well as Hydro graphic Survey Unit.

Towards fostering closer and warmer relations with Myanmar, the Indian Navy has always tried to strengthen defence cooperation with the Myanmar Navy by providing assistance, especially in the fields of training, weapon/ equipment sales and hydro graphic assistance, the release said.

The strong links between the two countries was amply demonstrated by the very warm welcome accorded by Myanmar to Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Sunil Lanba, during his recent visit in November last year.

Read more 
