20170301 
Fearing poaching, Shiv Sena to herd all corporators to undisclosed location 
1-3-2017 
The Sena now fears the BJP may use its hold over the administration and its financial resources to trump it in the BMC. (Express Photo) The Sena now fears the BJP may use its hold over the administration and its financial resources to trump it in the BMC. (Express Photo)

A day after Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to apprise him of the political situation in the state, the Shiv Sena leadership has started preparations to herd all its corporators to an undisclosed location.

The party also held a meeting of its senior ministers to chart out its political strategy in case the relationship between the two parties deteriorates further. Both the BJP and the Shiv Sena are battling it out for the mayoral poll in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), with neither willing to back down.

Both failed to get the 114 votes needed to have their own candidate as mayor. This has led to a race to shore up support from all possible quarters, including structuring new alliances to take control of the municipal corporation.

Watch What Else Is Making News

The Sena now fears the BJP may use its hold over the administration and its financial resources to trump it in the BMC.

“The situation in the state is fluid and the meeting was about what party leaders thought is the way forward,” a senior Shiv Sena leader said.

Interestingly, Maharashtra’s energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule of the BJP visited Uddhav Thackeray’s residence. Bawankule said there was no political agenda and that he had gone to invite Thackeray for a wedding in the family.

The party is also considering sending all its corporators to an undisclosed location to ensure that there is no poaching of candidates.

On Tuesday, the Shiv Sena had appointed Yashwant Jadhav, a senior corporator, as its group leader. Jadhav, along with the 88 corporators including four independent corporators, registered themselves with the Konkan Divisional commissioner as a group. 
