20170301 
Cricket Association of Bengal moves Supreme Court against BCCI administrators 
1-3-2017 
Relations between the state bodies and the Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators (CoA) reached a boiling point with the Sourav Ganguly-led Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) deciding to move the Apex Court.

With the deadline set by Supreme Court-appointed administrators for state associations to submit the compliance report ending on Wednesday, the CAB decided to challenge the authority of CoA following a working committee meeting chaired by the former India captain Ganguly.

Read more | Virat Kohli to receive Polly Umrigar Award, R Ashwin gets Dilip Sardesai Award

The Bengal body’s move against the administrators, complaining that they have acted beyond their brief, comes close on the heels of BCCI joint secretary Amitabh Chaudhary doing the same a few days back.

CAB’s petition states that the committee’s actions are in violation of the fundamental rights under the Articles 19 (1)(c) and (19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India as well as contrary to the decision of the Apex Court on July 18, 2016.

“It’s the same rule affecting all the 29 associations,” CAB president Sourav Ganguly said.

Read more | Now pitch-fixing in cricket? Ex-BCCI official wants CBI to probe Pune massacre

“The CoA by holding that as per the ‘disqualifications’ provided by the honourable Apex Court no one could be a member, representatives, advisors, patron, or even member of any Committee of the Associations, they have acted in breach of the fundamental rights enshrined under Article 19 (1) (c) and (19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India as well as the specific observations to that extent made by the honourable Supreme Court in its order on July 18, 2016,” said the CAB legal Advisor Ushanath Banerjee.

The CoA has been told that president Sourav Ganguly, the two joint secretaries Subir Ganguly and Avishek Dalmiya, assistant secretary Anu Dutta along with the three vice-presidents Shankar Lal Bagchi, Samar Pal and Sudip Bose are still eligibe office-bearer. The only ineligible office-bearer is treasurer Biswarup Dey.

The CoA has also been informed that the CAB has not received any grant of R16.73 crore from the BCCI --- promised to associations as compensation for cancellation of Champions League T20 tournament. 
