20170302 
Gurmehar Kaur to HT: Don’t want to enter politics, ABVP fight like ‘lion that roars only once’ 
2-3-2017 
Gurmehar Kaur may have become the face of the fight against the RSS-affiliated Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), but she is not really basking in the limelight.

The 20-year-old, who took to the social media to attack the ABVP after the Ramjas College clash, said she was “saddened” that the issue had gained a political hue. “The issue on which I spoke went out of hand. I would like to clarify that I do not want to enter politics,” Gurmehar told Hindustan Times at her residence in Jalandhar.

Kaur, a student of Delhi’s Lady Shri Ram College for Women, expressed reluctance to speak about her past. “I just gave my opinion, and I never expected the whole thing to take such a turn. I had a really bad time. I am not in a state to talk about it, and I cannot take it anymore.”

Under the media glare

Gurmehar’s friends just couldn’t get used to the sight of mediapersons waiting outside her house every time they dropped by. “This has turned into such a big issue that we are scared even to say anything. Political parties have gained the most out of this,” said a family friend on the condition of anonymity.

“Gurmehar takes after her father, who was so strong and forthcoming. She should not be troubled by mediapersons and politicians,” said another acquaintance.

The martyr’s daughter, for her part, wished that the media glare would move away. “It is not acceptable that people get to see my house, the place I stay, in the newspapers. It doesn’t feel good,” she said, adding that even having a meal peacefully was difficult with everybody bombarding her through phone and email.

“I am through with this. I came here from Delhi to get some rest, but the media is hounding me here too. I am unable to go outside, and nobody is able to come in either,” she said.

Read more

A lion roars only once

Gurmehar said she would not take her fight with the ABVP any further, drawing a comparison to a “lion that roars just once”.

“I would be grateful if I were just left alone because neither my family nor I want to talk about it,” she said, even as the woman constable deputed by the Jalandhar police for her protection looked on.

Her mother, Rajvinder Kaur, also asked the press to refrain from asking questions that will “disturb” Gurmehar.

An article on the way?

Gurmehar claimed she may write an article on her confrontation with the ABVP soon. “I love to read books. I also like to write. So I may just pen an article on the entire issue,” she said.

Besides being an author, she is a national-level tennis player. “I am thankful to everybody who supported me. But for now, I would just like to focus on my future. I will soon go back to Delhi and work towards completing my master’s degree,” Gurmehar said.

Read more 
