20170302 
ABVP, Jat quota protests in Delhi; top news stories to look out 
2-3-2017 
Top news stories to look out for today.

Jat agitation for quota in Delhi, rally planned at Jantar Mantar

Leaders and members of the Jat community will protest at Jantar Mantar in Delhi demanding reservations in education and government jobs. More than 10,000 protestors from the states of Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh will participate in the rally. The leaders of the movement have asked their supporters to stop paying electricity, water bills and the instalment of loans that they owe to the government.

Read the full story here.

ABVP to organise demonstration in Delhi University

After students and teachers of Delhi University, Jawaharlal Nehru University and other universities in the capital protested against the alleged violence of Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad at Ramjas College, the ABVP will hold its own demonstration today, calling for the exclusion of the Left from the Delhi University campus.

Campaigning ends for Phase 6 of UP polls

Campaigning comes to a close in 49 Assembly seats in seven districts of eastern UP that go to the polls in the 6th phase on March 4. The key constituencies in this phase are Azamgarh which elected Mulayam Singh Yadav to the Lok Sabha, Gorakhpur, the Lok Sabha constituency of BJP leader Yogi Adityanath, and Mau, where gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari is in the fray. BJP President Amit Shah will be campaigning in Gorakhpur today.

Supreme Court to hear plea of Mumbai bar girls

The Supreme Court will hear a fresh plea challenging the constitutional validity of a 2016 Maharashtra law putting conditions on dance performances by girls and women in bars and hotels of state. The fresh plea, filed by ‘Bharatiya Bargirls Union’, has termed the new Act as arbitrary and violative of their right to earn a livelihood through legitimate means. It alleged that the new law stigmatised their profession and unreasonably interfered with free choice of expression. The union alleged that the term ‘obscene dance’ in the Act has been deliberately kept vague to allow police to harass women performers.

Japanese emperor to meet abandoned Vietnamese women abandoned by Japanese soldiers

Japan’s emperor and empress are on a landmark visit to Vietnam and are expected to express their sympathies to Vietnamese families abandoned by their Japanese soldier-husbands after World War II. Sixteen surviving wives and their children have been invited to meet with Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko.

Narendra Modi will address International Yoga Festival

Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the InternationaI Yoga Festival at Rishikesh festival via video link. Nearly 70 presenters and experts from more than 20 countries around the world are participating in this year’s festival. The week-long event is being jointly organised by the AYUSH ministry, Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board, Parmarth Niketan and Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam.

You may also want to read:

Gurmehar Kaur to HT: Don’t want to enter politics

Gurmehar Kaur may have become the face of the fight against the RSS-affiliated Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), but she is not really basking in the limelight. The 20-year-old, who took to the social media to criticise the ABVP after the Ramjas College clash, said she was “saddened” that the issue had gained a political hue. Gurmehar said she would not take her fight with the ABVP any further, drawing a comparison to a “lion that roars just once”.

Read the full story here.

Govt’s Skill India programme off to a dodgy start; possible fraud enrolment

The government says it trained about two million youth under the flagship Skill India programme but an HT investigation has found inconsistencies in the quality of training centres and possible fraudulent enrolment. The investigation showed two of the top 20 institutes lacked proper infrastructure and didn’t have enough space to train even a fraction of the claimed number of candidates. Read the full story here.

Gujarat and Bengal among zones identified as prone to insurance fraud

Insurance companies have identified several pockets in Gujarat, West Bengal, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, and Odisha as fraud-prone owing to increasing instances of fraudulent claims from these areas. Companies have complained about the high claims ratio of the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), a pro-poor government-sponsored policy that offers a renewable life cover of Rs 2 lakh for a premium of Rs 330 a year. Data revealed that 30% of the claims came within the first 30 days of the person getting insured under this scheme.

Read the full story here.

Trump administration has found only $20 million in existing funds for US-Mexico border wall

President Donald Trump’s promise to use existing funds to begin immediate construction of a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border has hit a financial roadblock, according to a document seen by Reuters. The start of construction was to be financed, according to the White House, with “existing funds and resources” of the Department of Homeland Security. But so far, the DHS has identified only $20 million that can be re-directed to the multi-billion-dollar project, according to a document prepared by the agency.

Read the full story here.

Kansas shooting: Here’s why India’s reaction to Kuchibhotla’s killing was muted

India’s unusually cautious reaction to the apparent racially motivated killing of engineer Srinivas Kuchibhotla in the United States last week has raised eyebrows. New Delhi’s response has been measured, markedly devoid of any strong outburst despite its national becoming the first possible victim of a hate crime in US President Donald Trump’s tenure. Experts say India’s reaction is guided by more pressing concerns of the US putting curbs on H-1B visas, which are the lifeblood of the Indian IT industry.

Read the full story here.

UP elections: The story of caste, conflict and why predictions are becoming difficult

Atomised social groups are making predictions difficult for polls that are in final phases in Uttar Pradesh. Voters are divided on religious and caste lines. Each region of the vast state has its unique electoral characteristics.

Read the full article here. 
