20170302 
Adhyayen Suman wants paid trolls to ‘save the Titanic’ aka Kangana Ranaut’s Rangoon? 
2-3-2017 
In a sarcastic comment seemingly made at his ex-girlfriend Kangana Ranaut’s Rangoon, Shekhar Suman’s son and actor Adhyayen Suman has asked “paid trolls” to save the “Titanic from sinking”.

Adhyayen’s post comes in the midst of the chaos caused by his father Shekhar Suman’s cryptic tweet about a “cocained actress” who has “fallen flat on her face”. Though he had not taken any names, Kangana’s defenders stood up for her and slammed the post.

One cocained actress was carrying the burden of her non existent stardom.She has fallen flat on her face n how.Guess this is poetic justice. — Shekhar Suman (@shekharsuman7) February 27, 2017

Adhyayen then defended his father, and has now written a fresh post condemning the trollers. “In middle of my script reading! Disturbed again by these parasites (trollers) they might just assume someone else... Just saying,” Adhyayen wrote on the post.

Read more

The 29-year-old actor added that the paid trollers should go to the theatres and save the “Titanic from sinking”. The comment seems to be indicated Rangoon-- a Vishal Bhardwaj directorial which hasn’t elicited the response the team was hoping to get. “Let me give you an advice... All the money you are making to come here and abuse me go to the theatres with whatever money you have and watch the film and... save the ‘Titanic from sinking’ because it’s sinking real fast,” he added.

Advice ! pic.twitter.com/fySUo22XZD — adhyayen suman (@AdhyayanSsuman) March 1, 2017

Adhyayen, who was questioned by trolls on his own failure as an actor, said it’s debatable. “It’s debatable... We will see who will remain a failure and who won’t... While I work in films, you may mock me here or do something for yourself,” he said.

Iam gonna squash each one of you parasites ..BRING IT ON ! pic.twitter.com/7wyw3Yvywy — adhyayen suman (@AdhyayanSsuman) March 1, 2017

Adhyayan and Kangana had a bitter split, and made explosive revelations about his former girlfriend, saying he was “abused verbally and physically”.

Follow @htshowbiz for more 
