20170302 
Why Virat Kohli better than Sachin Tendulkar in Australia: Ganguly 
2-3-2017 
Virat Kohli’s upward journey, ever since taking over the mantle of Indian cricket team, came to an abrupt and unexpected halt against Steven Smith-led Australian cricket team in the first match of a four-Test series in Pune.

Sourav Ganguly, former India captain, believes Kohli’s record in Australia against Australia should suffice the 28-year-old captain enough to be confident to return to winning ways. To back his point, Ganguly went a step further and said even Sachin Tendulkar doesn’t match Kohli’s records in Australia.

“Virat Kohli will come back. His record against Australia is unreal. To watch those four Test match hundreds against Australia, I have not seen even the great Sachin Tendulkar do that,” Ganguly told India Today TV channel.

Read | How is Virat Kohli’s Indian cricket team recovering from Pune disaster

“Yes he (Tendulkar) has done very well against Australia but getting four Test match hundreds in only your second trip to Australia is a special, special effort.”

Kohli’s record vs Australia better

In India’s 2014-15 away tour of Australia, Kohli scored four tons and one half-century in four Tests. He scored 692 runs in that tour at an average of 86.50.

Kohli’s overall average in Tests in Australia is also much better than Tendulkar. In eight matches, from 2011 to 2015, Kohli has scored 992 runs at an average of 62.00. He hit five tons.

Read | Virat Kohli and Indian team go treasure hunting in Western Ghats: Watch video

Tendulkar, on the other hand, scored 1809 runs in 20 Tests, from 1991 to 2012, at an average of 53.20. He scored six tons.

‘DRS decisions emotional’

Ganguly, however, said that India needed to use the DRS carefully. “We need to get the DRS right. I think now India’s DRS are more emotional than logical,” he said.

#BCCIawards - Captain @imVkohli has been awarded the Polly Umrigar Award for the 3rd time #NAMAN pic.twitter.com/01lai5p1AY — BCCI (@BCCI) March 1, 2017

Comeback

Ganguly added that India can make a strong comeback in the second Test.

“Kohli got out to a loose shot in the first Test. The rest of the lot too has to stand up. India have the team to get back strong. India had beaten England in Lord’s in 2014, but they came back strong. India will have to believe in themselves, it is no rocket science,” he said.

Karun Nair as extra batsman

Ganguly said that India can bring in one extra batsman. “Though I would not like to change the team much but an extra batsman might help. May be in place of Jayant Yadav, I would have gotten in Karun Nair. He scored a triple hudred in his last match,” he said. 
