20170302 
Caught on camera: Dogs chase leopard away in Mumbai housing society 
2-3-2017 
A pack of dogs chased a young leopard out of an apartment complex in Mumbai’s Goregaon on Tuesday night and the feat was caught on closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera in the premises, the forest department has said.

The video footage is from Girikunj Society, Dindoshi, Goregaon (East), adjacent to the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) that is known for its leopard population.

Several leopards have been seen in the area in recent months but local residents say this was the first time a leopard entered this society.

“The video clearly shows a dog is first attacked and dragged by the leopard behind vehicles but the dog manages to get out of the leopards grip and create a ruckus to alert other dogs in the area,” said Shailesh Rao, resident and member of Mumbaiikars for SGNP, a citizens group working towards creating awareness about living with leopards. “Once other dogs rushed to the spot, the gang forced the leopard to move back into the forest territory.”

According to a study done by SGNP in 2015, dogs make a major portion of a leopards prey base, especially those living close to urban areas. “There is a need to treat waste properly at the housing society level to control the population of stray dogs that attract the big cat,” said Kank.

The incident comes a month after leopards were spotted at another Mumbai suburb. First on January 22 through CCTV images, and then on January 31 and February 1, a sub-adult leopard was seen crossing a road lined with parked vehicles near a residential complex adjacent to the SGNP. A much younger leopard was seen crossing the road a minute later. The incident forced forest officials to install camera traps and monitor the animals movement.

“A team of forest officials are patrolling the area every night to help avoid any untoward incidents. Residents are panicked and we are getting distress calls but there is nothing to worry about as leopard sightings are common in the area,” said Santosh Kank, range forest officer, Mumbai. “Teams from SGNP and Thane territorial have already begun awareness drives at the residential society.”

“As of now we do not have such plans for the Goregaon society but regular patrolling in the area will be done and more action will be taken if required,” said Kank.

Rao added that residents were aware about leopard sightings but still needed to be sensitised. “An awareness drive has been scheduled with residents from Girikunj and Girishikhar during the weekend and residents have been told not to panic if they spot the animal and inform the forest department immediately,” he said.

A resident, on the condition of anonymity, said that citizens need to be careful during walks or jogs, both during early morning and after sunset. “Parents need to make sure that their kids are indoors after sunset and there needs to be coordination among various societies close to the park for swift communication,” she said adding, “The animals are not a threat but we need to be careful.”

A study undertaken by Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in collaboration with the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) from December 2014 to April 2015, found 35 free-roaming leopards across 140 square km, including areas outside SGNP, the Nagla forest block across the Vasai Creek and the Aarey Milk Colony.

Experts say big cats have been seen in the area frequently for many years and the green cover encourages the animals to move freely.

“In 2012, a leopard had taken a dog from one of the apartment complexes but there has been no untoward incident for man animal conflicts,” said Krishna Tiwari, Mulund resident and founder, forest and wildlife conservation society. 
