20170302 
Greater Noida metro link to open by April 2018, six months before time 
2-3-2017 
After completing the construction of 29.7km metro corridor from Noida to Greater Noida, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will also handle the operations of this line for five years.

The trials on the corridor will be conducted in December this year and the link will be operational by April 2018. It is estimated to have a ridership of 1.2 lakh a day which will rise to 4 lakh by 2031.

The figures and the dates were announced by the DMRC officials during a ceremony held on Thursday to felicitate the Metro authority for its record feat of putting up 200 U-shaped girders on the entire corridor in a single month in May 2016.

The under-construction metro depot in Greater Noida, which will house 32 trains. (Virendra Singh Gosain/HT PHOTO)

The feat had put the DMRC engineers in the Limca Book of Records and the award certificate was handed over the DMRC managing director Dr Mangu Singh during the felicitation ceremony.

All the U-girders were pre-fabricated at the two casting yards in Noida Sector 149 and the depot station in Greater Noida. All stations of this corridor will have platform screen doors.

Noida-Greater Noida corridor will be linked with the upcoming Noida City Centre to Sector 62 corridor. A foot overbridge will connect Sector 52 metro station on the Noida City Centre to Sector 62 corridor with Sector 71 Metro station on the Noida-Greater Noida corridor.

Mangu Singh said they have created a benchmark by executing the corridor. “We have executed the corridor before the deadline and at a low cost,” he said.

A model of the Noida to Greater Noida Metro rail project, which is being built by the Delhi Metro. (Virendra Singh Gosain/HT PHOTO)

Trial run: Within two months, engineers from DMRC and Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) will be visiting China to procure a train for trial run. The first trial would be conducted on a 6km stretch from metro depot to Knowledge Park in Greater Noida.

Thematic facelift: The stations will have a thematic facelift based on tradition, culture and tourism of the state, while some metro stations such as the Knowledge Park one in Greater Noida would display history-related objects and artefacts.

Power generation: Across the 21 metro stations of the corridor, the roof will be flat. These flat roofs will accommodate solar panels, which will generate 10 megawatt electricity. This will be used for lighting purposes at the stations. Similarly, 5MW of power will be generated through solar panels at the metro depot in Greater Noida.

Extension of metro lines: Once the line is operational, two more links will be created. One of the lines will be constructed from Sector 71 metro station to Noida Extension, while the will go from Sector 142 to Botanical Garden station. The DMRC has submitted the detailed project reports (DPRs) of both the lines to the state government. However, the nod has not been received so far. There is also a proposal for the extension of the existing line from Noida-Greater Noida to Buraki.

Time and money saved: To complete the line ahead of the stipulated time, the DMRC saved a year and half by reducing the height of the track near Shafipur village in Greater Noida. Officials said the height of the overhead track near the village had to be lowered as it was colliding with 400 kV high tension line. “With the change in metro track height, we also saved Rs 150 crore. Had we maintained the same height, there would have been many hiccups in electricity transmission and it would have required a lot of paper work,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director corporate communications, DMRC.

Saving water: A separate tank has been constructed inside the metro depot in Greater Noida, which has a storage capacity of 5 lakh litres of used water. This tank has been constructed on the “zero discharge” principle. Officials said the recycled water would be used for washing purposes, while there would be a separate supply of potable water.

Metro depot: The metro depot which is under construction has 16 stabling lines, which can house total of 32 trains. It will also house operation control centre and depot control centre and an auditorium. It will also have 224 staff quarters. 
