20170303 
Three DYFI activists attacked in Kerala, 3 BJP workers named in police complaint: Report 
3-3-2017 
Mumbai : Members from the ‘FACT’ (The forum against communist terror) protest against CPM for the attacks on RSS/BJP followers in Kerala at aazad maidan in Mumbai on Wednesday. PTI Photo Mumbai : Members from the ‘FACT’ (The forum against communist terror) protest against CPM for the attacks on RSS/BJP followers in Kerala at aazad maidan in Mumbai on Wednesday. PTI Photo

Three Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) activists were injured in an attack at Elappulli in Palakkad district, Kerala on Thursday night. Rathish (30), Yousuf (31), Sudheesh (28) were identified as those who were attacked. Five unidentified men who came on motor bikes attacked the trio. DYFI is the youth wing of the CPM. According to ANI, the police complaint named three BJP workers for attacking the youth, but there was no official confirmation as yet.

The attack in Palakad happened few hours before the bomb attack on RSS office in Kallachi in Kozhikode district on Thursday. Three RSS workers were injured in the bomb attack and were shifted to Kozhikode’s Government Medical College. The identities of the perpetrators remain unknown.

Earlier on Thursday, an RSS leader from Ujjain announced a “bounty” of Rs 1 crore on Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s head. Kundan Chandravat, ‘Sah Prachar Pramukh’ of RSS in Ujjain held Vijayan responsible for the deaths of RSS workers in Kerala. “If anyone beheads the Kerala CM, who is the murderer of RSS activists, and brings his head I will bequeath my property worth more than Rs 1 crore to him,’’ he said. Vijayan said the remarks didn’t bother him: “I reject the threat with contempt.” However, the RSS distanced itself from Chandrawat’s remarks, saying it “never believed in violence and believes in democratic protest” and “condemns the emotional comments made by Kundan”.

Also on Thursday, Delhi University’s North Campus saw posters of mutilated bodies and ransacked homes splashed all along Chhatra Marg on Thursday as the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) took out a protest march against “Communist forces” and for peace in the university. One of the hoardings has a photo of a mutilated body of an RSS worker from Kannur, Kerala, who was killed in 2008. The ABVP alleged that Communists are perpetrating violence in various parts of the country and used the photograph as evidence during the rally.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd 
