20170117 
Delhi HC seeks MHA reply on plea for report on food served to BSF men 
17-1-2017 
The Delhi High Court has asked the MHA for a report on the food being served to the BSF soldiers. The Delhi High Court has asked the MHA for a report on the food being served to the BSF soldiers.

The Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought response of the Ministry of Home Affairs on a plea seeking its status report on alleged poor quality food being served along the LoC as claimed by a BSF soldier on social media. A bench of Chief Justice G Rohini and Justice Sangeeta Dhingra Sehgal also issued notice to Border Security Force (BSF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and Assam Rifles seeking their stand on the allegation of poor quality food being given to jawans.

Watch what else is making news:

It also directed the BSF to produce before it the investigation report and the steps it has taken with regard to allegations levelled by BSF jawan Tej Bahadur Yadav. The steps have already been taken by respondent 2 (BSF) in this regard. However, we would like to see their report. Whatever report you have, place before the court on next date of hearing, February 27,” the bench said.

The direction came after advocate Gaurang Kanth, appearing for BSF, informed the court that BSF has already done on the spot inspection after the incident. “Things are in order. We have found nothing as was alleged by Yadav. However, we are further looking into the issue,” Kanth submitted.

The bench, meanwhile, refused to issue any direction with regard to not taking any action against Yadav, as was sought by the petitioner, saying, “Sorry we will not go into it.” The petition was filed by Puran Chand Arya, a former central government employee, in the wake of a video posted on Facebook by BSF jawan Tej Bahadur Yadav, claiming corruption among officers and poor working conditions.

The public interest litigation (PIL) sought direction to MHA to submit a status report with respect to all paramilitary forces in India over allegations of the BSF jawan in his video which went viral on social media. Citing the fundamental Right to Equality (Article 14) and Life (Article 21), the PIL filed through advocate Abhishek Kumar Choudhary highlights the allegations about insufficient and bad quality of food provided to jawans.

It seeks action on the incident so that the morale of the force is not affected and also asks for clarity on ration procurement, food preparation and servings to various categories of officers. On January 9, Yadav posted a video on Facebook which showed a meal box comprising a watery soup-like dal, which he said had only turmeric and salt and a burnt chapatti. He said this is what jawans were served at mealtime on duty. He said jawans often went to bed on an empty stomach.

The Union home ministry has now taken cognisance of the video and ordered an immediate investigation into the matter. The PIL has sought direction to depute higher officers to supervise cooking of proper healthy food and its distribution. 
