20170303 
5}: Choppy dubbing and lazy editing seal the movie’s fate 
3-3-2017 
Story: This is about the journey of a woman, who goes from being an average, middle-class girl to a princess and finally an acclaimed writer. Spread across several decades and three cities. It looks at how she faces obstacles in her life and the lessons she draws from the hardships she endures.



Review: It’s the story of Alia Patrick (Manjari Fadnnis) and her journey which starts in Udaipur. Born in a traditional Catholic family, she faces sexism early on from her parents. In college, she falls in love with Alex and thinks it will be forever. However, they marry her off to a Rajasthani Prince Vikram Pratap Singh (Ashutosh Rana) for money. A violent, psychopath, he is a textbook masochist with a history of ill-treating women in his family. Somewhat unhappy, Alia still gives away all her freedoms and is content to sitting at home. But when she is forced to abort her unborn daughter, she leaves the haveli with the help of close aide Lakshmi (Supriya Pathak), and flees to Mumbai. Here, she gives birth to her baby girl and turns over a new leaf as she starts a journey as a writer that will eventually take her to New York. She gets another chance at love in the form of NRI philanthropist Aditya Kapoor. But will she take it, or has the hardships face in life made her bitter to accept love?



A clear case of riding the wave of women-centric films, Jeena Isi Ka Naam Hai has an overly simplistic approach at dealing with serious issues that concern women. In the process, it reduces the broad topic to end up just serving itself and ends up becoming nothing more than a shoddily made, formula film.



Actors like Ashutosh Rana and Supriya Pathak seem to be completely underused. As for Manjari Faddnis, it’s sad to see so much wasted. Prem Chopra, as the purist Urdu editor who helps Alia, adds nothing to the film and is reduced to being used for comic relief.



While the Indian portions of the film, including the haveli sets are attractive, the film operates in flat-out bizarre territory when Alia is seen saving lives as a war-correspondent in the Middle East.



Choppy dubbing and lazy editing seal the movie’s fate. Almost two-and-a-half hours later when you’re defeated by a film that doesn’t seem to end, there’s a song so tacky, you feel you’ve had it. But does it end there? No, there’s still more that makes you question the quality of the last three hours you just lost! 
