20170303 
Constable, friend held for molesting woman in cab in Telangana 
3-3-2017 
The Hyderabad police on Friday arrested two persons, including a newly-recruited constable, for allegedly molesting a 20-year old woman inside a cab which she took to go to Guntur on National Highway 65.

According to Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagawat, the woman, who works as a hair stylist at Madhapur, was waiting for a bus at L B Nagar crossing in the city early on Thursday to go to her native place Guntur.

Immanuel, who was recruited as a constable recently and hails from Neredmet, and his friend Venu, a jobless youth from Nagole, approached her in a cab. Venu, who was driving, said he was looking for passengers to Guntur and promised to drop her safely for a low rate.

Since Immanuel was sitting in the passenger’s seat in civilian clothes, the woman, who travels regularly in cabs, thought he was another traveller, and unsuspectingly got into the back seat alone.

After about 45 km on the national highway, after having crossed Choutuppal town in Nalgonda district, one of them got into the back seat and started molesting her. She shouted loudly but there was none to listen to her as the windows were closed and there was hardly any traffic on the highway.

However, within minutes, the cab reached the toll gate at Panthangi village, where the woman banged the door from inside raising an alarm. Immediately, people in the area approached the cab and tried to apprehend the accused, but they pushed her out of the car, took a U-turn and fled towards Hyderabad.

“With the help of locals, the woman alerted the Choutuppal police and gave the registration number of the cab. And they, in turn, brought to the notice of the Rachakonda police. A special operations team swung into action and arrested Venu and Immanuel from two different places in the city,” Bhagawat said.

As the woman had to go to Guntur for important work, police sent an escort with her to Guntur.

In an advice to women, Bhagawat said almost all cabs in the city are registered with the police and have stickers provided by the police. “The passengers, especially women, should take a picture of this sticker and forward the same to their relatives, in case of emergency.” 
