20170303 
Pakistan has no plans to extradite ‘Indian spy’ Kulbhushan Jadhav: Sartaj Aziz 
3-3-2017 
Pakistan has no plans to hand over Kulbhushan Jadhav, arrested on charges of espionage, to India and he will be prosecuted under the country’s laws, foreign policy chief Sartaj Aziz said on Friday.

Aziz, who was speaking in the Senate or upper house of Parliament on the issue of Jadhav, said the government is not considering any option to extradite Jadhav. An FIR had been registered against him, he said.

“We have prepared an FIR and a case is in the process of registration to prosecute the Indian state actor for involvement in subversive and terrorist activities in Pakistan,” he told the House, according to Pakistani media reports.

The Pakistan government has sent a list of questions on this matter to its Indian counterpart, he added.

Read| India, Pakistan exchange barbs over arrest of alleged spy Jadhav

Aziz, who is the advisor on foreign affairs to Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, was responding to a question from lawmaker Talha Mehmood, who asked whether the government planned to give the same “red carpet” treatment to Jadhav which was given to CIA contractor Raymond Davis.

“There is no such possibility,” Aziz said.

Davis was arrested after he shot dead two men in Lahore in January 2011. He was freed and allowed to leave Pakistan about two months later after $2.4 million was paid as “blood money” to the families of the dead men.

Sartaz Aziz said the Pakistan government has sent a list of questions about Jadhav to India. (AFP)

Aziz also said “it has never been said that there was any lack of evidence against Jadhav”. Pakistan has shared a dossier with the UN Secretary General on India’s alleged involvement in the country’s internal affairs and in “subversive and terrorist activities”.

“This dossier includes details about Kulbashan Jadhav and his activities,” Aziz said. The government, he added, is examining the possibility of sharing the dossier with other countries and international organisations.

The dossier is not the only route to deal with the issue as the case for prosecuting Jadhav is being prepared, he said. “This is a very delicate and sensitive issue and requires detailed preparations and home work as it relates to direct or indirect involvement of Indian state actor in subversive and terrorist activities in Pakistan,” he added.

Opposition Pakistan People’s Party (PPP) leader Aitzaz Ahsan said he had challenged Prime Minister Sharif to mention Jadhav in a speech and questioned if the premier had done this. Aziz replied: “When the time is appropriate, the PM will speak about Kulbashan Jadhav.”

Jadhav, a former Indian Navy officer, was arrested in Balochistan in March last year. Pakistani authorities claimed he had confessed he was working for the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) but this was rejected by India. 
