20170303 
MP police yet to study video of RSS leader’s Rs 1 crore offer to behead Kerala CM 
3-3-2017 
Madhya Pradesh police are yet to examine a video clipping containing RSS leader Kundan Chandrawat’s Rs one crore bounty on Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s head even as pressure mounted on the state government to act over the controversial statement.

“We are collecting the video. Once we look into it we will decide on the further course of action,” said MS Verma, the Ujjain superintendent of police.

Verma said no one has lodged any complaint against Chandrawat who was heard in a video clip making the offer. The clip has been widely circulated on social media.

Asked if police can take suo motto action on the video clipping, Verma said police will decide after going through the contents of the video.

Chandrawat has since then expressed “regret” over the statement but added that he had achieved what he had wanted to achieve – highlight attacks on RSS activists in Kerala, allegedly by ruling CPM cadres.

The state government has sought to defend the RSS leader with home minister Bhupendra Singh saying that Chandrawat might have made the statement on a spur of moment and the words might have been an expression of his anger.

Read more

Prakash Shastry, RSS’ sanghchalak for the Malwa region, told HT the RSS office-bearer had already expressed his regret over his statement.

He, however, added the organisation will look into the matter and have a meeting in the next couple of days to take a decision on his statement.

Senior Supreme Court lawyer and the Congress’ Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha described the statement as a fit case for initiating criminal proceedings against the RSS office-bearer under the National Security Act.

He said there were several sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) under which the RSS leader could be booked for threatening, causing disruption of public peace, criminal conspiracy etc, besides being a fit case under the NSA.

“If this cannot be a case for taking action under NSA then what else can be?”

In an attack on the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government, he said action under the NSA was taken even in insignificant cases but when people were talking of mass murder and beheading a chief minister they took it lightly.

“If you talk of good governance and law and order in the state, this is the minimum people of the state expect from a government”, he added. 
