20170303 
Airports on alert after reports that rape accused Gayatri Prajapati is planning to flee 
3-3-2017 
SP candidate from Amethi Gayatri Prasad Prajapati. PTI photo SP candidate from Amethi Gayatri Prasad Prajapati. PTI photo

Amid reports that rape accused Samajwadi Party minister Gayatri Prajapti was planning to escape, airports and exit points were put on high alert on Friday, as reported by PTI. Prajapati, who is a first-time MLA from Amethi, has been accused of rape by a woman from Bundelkhand who alleged that he along with six associates had raped her at Prajapati’s official residence at 5, Gautampalli in Lucknow back in 2014. In her complaint to police, the woman alleged that one of the accused Ashok Tiwari had asked her to come to Prajapati’s house where the UP minister had asked her to work in sand mining.

Watch What Else is Making News

In the FIR, the woman said: “He told me that he will allot one block in Hamirpur to me before mixing some intoxicating substance in my tea,” adding that she was gangraped after she fell unconscious. Subsequently, the woman alleged that Prajapati and his associates used the gangrape pictures to blackmail her.

READ: All about Mulayam Singh’s favourite Gayatri Prasad Prajapati and the gangrape case against him

Prajapati was inducted into Akhilesh Yadav’s ministry as the Minister of State for Irrigation in February 2013. He was given the independent charge of mining in July 2013 thereafter. The minister was promoted to Cabinet Minister in January 2014 even as the Samajwadi Party tried to reach out to the backward Kumhar caste which has good numbers across the state but remains under-represented in politics.

In the meantime, BJP president Amit Shah on Friday slammed the Akhilesh-led Samajwadi Party government in the state for not doing enough to arrest Prajapati. In a statement to the media, as quoted by news agency ANI, Shah said: “Akhilesh government should arrest Prajapati before March 11. If this doesn’t happen, once the BJP government is formed we will find him by from just about anywhere.”

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd 
