20170303 
Meet Lucknow boy Shubh Agrawal who scored 1590/1600 to become India SAT topper 
3-3-2017 
Ranking at the top of the class is nothing new for Shubh Agrawal. He has been a topper ever since he entered school. But with a score of 1,590 out of 1,600, he is probably India’s highest scorer in the January 2017 SAT, conducted by the College Board, USA.

Sanjeev Kumar Pandey, centre coordinator and Shubh’s mentor at the USA UnivQuest here in Lucknow, told this to HT as he shared some interesting insights on the 16-year-old who has now become the talk of town.

If you thought Shubh only browses science books, it is not true. “Shubh is an avid reader of science fiction. At the moment he is reading Ninefox Gambit by Yoon Ha Lee. However, his favourite author is Stephen Hawking,” said Pandey, who has been mentoring him for nearly three years now.

Shubh Agrawal with his parents and sister. (Handout image)

Stephen Hawking has had a profound influence on Shubh. The boy’s teacher quoted him as saying: “After reading Hawking’s bestselling book ‘A Brief History of Time’, I have aligned my goals with that of Hawkins. To repeat the words of Hawking – My goal is simple. It is a complete understanding of the universe, why it is as it is, and why it exists at all. I therefore dream of being an astro-physicist.”

“Shubh has an exceptional grasp on the basic concepts of the sciences and mathematics. His lucid understanding of the complex topics in both subjects is reflected in his achievements,” said Pandey.

Studying in class 11 of the City Montessori School’s Gomti Nagar branch, Shubh is the proud recipient of the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) award from the government of India. He has also qualified for the KVPY (Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojana) test, and the results of his interviews are awaited.

Read more

An alumnus of St Francis College, Shubh is well liked by his teachers not only due to his diligence in studies but also because he is a great role model for other students. He is soft-spoken, composed, and communicates his opinion in a humble but clear way.

Abha Anant, principal of CMS Gomti Nagar, said, “Shubh is extremely focused, disciplined and dogged in his efforts. Not just in academics, he is equally pro-active in co-curricular activities. He played a key role in organising the Model United Nations we had in our school.”

Shubh’s mother, Dr Mridula Agrawal, said he is a subdued and shy guy but self-driven when it comes to academics. “He clearly knows what he wishes to study and why. Till he achieves his goal, he is relentless in his efforts,” she added.

Shubh looks forward to studying at one of the best-ranked universities in the world. (Handout image)

His mother’s observations were corroborated by his teacher-mentor Sanjeev Pandey, who has mentored Shubh over the previous year. “USA UnivQuest is proud to have polished this gem for the world. Till date, he is yet to miss a scheduled class. He deserves to study in the best of universities,” he said.

In his free time, Shubh can often be seen handling a huge telescope with his sister, Sukanya, on the terrace of their house. Together, they scan the skies in the hope of discovering a celestial body or indication of life on another planet. He now looks forward to studying at one of the best-ranked universities in the world.

Shubh Agarwal has made us proud by scoring 1,590 out of 1,600 marks in the SAT-R exam. This is the highest score in India for the SAT Test held on January 21, 2017. He scored 800 out of 800 in the mathematics section, and 790 out of 800 at evidence-based reading and writing in the English section. 
