20170303 
Airport alert for rape-accused UP minister Gayatri Prajapati, Akhilesh promises help in the case 
3-3-2017 
Airports across the country were on Friday alerted about the possibility of rape-accused UP minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati trying to flee the country even as chief minister Akhilesh Yadav promised all help in the case.

While the minister continues to elude police, a relative of the woman has said a UP Police officer who recorded the victim’s statement threatened to kill them.

Yadav and his Samajwadi Party are facing the heat over the missing minister as the state holds sixth round of voting on Saturday.

The case, the BJP said, was a pointer to the worsening law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh.

A letter of cancellation would soon be opened against Prajapati and all airports were alerted to prevent the 49-year-old from fleeing the country, official sources said.

A letter of cancellation is a technical term for alerting immigration authorities about the possibility of a suspect leaving the country.

The Sashastra Seema Bal, which guards Uttar Pradesh’s border with Nepal, too, was on an alert.

An FIR was recently registered against the minister for allegedly gang-raping a woman and molesting her daughter. The FIR was filed on the directions of the Supreme Court.

Read more

CM promises help

“The matter is in the Supreme Court...The government will fully cooperate and go by its order,” Akhilesh Yadav said to a question at a hurriedly convened press conference in Lucknow.

When his attention was drawn to a tweet by state BJP president Keshav Prasad Maurya that said Prajapati was hiding in the chief minister’s house, Yadav asked the mediapersons to check for themselves.

Prajapati is the SP’s candidate from Amethi, which voted on February 27.

‘Murder threat’

A relative of the woman allegedly raped by Prajapati and his aides alleged that a police officer who came to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi to record the victim’s statement, threatened to kill them in a fake encounter.

In a complaint filed at the city’s Hauz Khas police station, the relative alleged that a DSP-rank officer on Thursday barged into the ward where the victim’s 16-year-old daughter is admitted and threatened them. The officer also snatched their mobile phones.

Read more

The victim’s daughter, who was also allegedly sexually assaulted by the minister, is being treated in a restricted ward of AIIMS.

“The lady officer pushed the girl who is undergoing treatment and pestered the mother to record the statement.

“When we objected to it, the officer threatened to get us killed in a fake encounter,” said the complainant, who claimed to be a cousin of the victim.

Delhi Police sources said a team went to AIIMS but found nothing to back the claims made in the complaint.

“We have received a complaint from them and it is being examined. In case something comes out in the investigation, we will register an FIR,” a Delhi Police officer said.

Deputy superintendent of police Amita Singh had recorded the statement of the victim and her daughter amid opposition by their family members at AIIMS. 
