20170303 
Fernando Torres awake, alert after suffering frightening head injury 
3-3-2017 
Atletico Madrid forward Fernando Torres suffered a frightening head injury in Thursday’s 1-1 draw to Deportivo La Coruna.

Only seeing the Torres incident now, man that was brutal. pic.twitter.com/JKjWPI8eJ7 — Jacob (@Jcbers) March 3, 2017

The Spanish international is best known for his dominant stretch with Liverpool, but he has also enjoyed great tenures in Madrid on either side of his Premier League experience.

Muchas gracias a todos por preocuparos por mí y por vuestros mensajes de ánimo. Ha sido sólo un susto. Espero volver muy pronto! — Fernando Torres (@Torres) March 2, 2017

Fernando Torres went for the ball Thursday, but was pushed from behind. He then landed face-first hard on the ground. His teammates instantly reacted with terrified looks and gestures to the trainers.

Prayers go out to Fernando @Torres tonight. Awful injury. ❤ Get well soon pic.twitter.com/LMQwMbZ3A2 — #FootyOnTop (@DDFootyFactory) March 3, 2017

After undergoing a CT scan, Torres tweeted from the hospital: “Many thanks to all for worrying for me and for your messages of encouragement. Has been only a scare. I hope to come back very soon!”

Thoughts tonight are also with @Torres. Get well soon Nando, from everyone at Stamford Bridge. pic.twitter.com/wTgiHb1y3C — Chelsea FC (@ChelseaFC) March 2, 2017

Chelsea FC, the team for which Fernando Torres played in between Liverpool and his current stint with Atletico, tweeted its support as well.

“Thoughts tonight are also with Torres. Get well soon Nando, from everyone at Stamford Bridge.”

Fernando Torres is evacuated in an ambulance due to a head injury during the Spanish league football match between Deportivo de la Coruna vs Club Atletico de Madrid at the Municipal de Riazor stadium in La Coruna on Thursday. The match ended with a 1-1 draw. (AFP)

We wish you a speedy recovery, @Torres https://t.co/93aXKf5TrY — Liverpool FC (@LFC) March 2, 2017

Fernando Torres has been an overwhelming fan favorite throughout his career, so his progress will be followed closely by many. He has won both the Champions League (biggest club tournament) and the World Cup throughout his illustrious career.

A veces no importan los colores! Ojalá estés lo antes posible entrenando y jugando! @Torres — Álvaro Morata (@AlvaroMorata) March 2, 2017

Real Madrid forward Alvaro Morata and Spain star Cesc Fabregas sent well wishes to Fernando Torres after the Atletico Madrid man’s head injury.

Torres was taken to hospital after the worrying blow during Atletico’s 1-1 LaLiga draw at Deportivo La Coruna on Thursday.

The Spaniard was later cleared of “traumatic injuries” and said he hoped to be back soon after the scare.

Well wishes for Torres flowed following the incident, including a classy tweet from Morata despite playing for Atletico’s fierce city rivals, saying he hoped for a quick recovery no matter the colours. 
