20170304 
I saw Anaarkali of Aarah and cried throughout: Sonam Kapoor 
4-3-2017 
Sonam Kapoor has always been one such actress, who never shied away from speaking her out, in regard to any issue it be. This time, the Neerja actress has come up to speak about her very close pal Swara Bhaskar and her talent.

Sonam Kapoor and Swara Bhaskar will next be seen together in Veerey Di Wedding along with Kareena Kapoor Khan.

In a recent event here, Sonam, while speaking about Swara’s upcoming film ‘Anarkali of Arah,’ was seen saying, the latter ‘does not’ get her due. “I saw Anaarkali of Aarah a couple of weeks back and cried throughout. First of all, I don’t think Swara gets her due. She did this film called Nil Battey Sannata last year, which I think, was one of the most amazing performances I ever saw. It was a courageous performance,” said the Khoobsurat actor, who made a bold and beautiful appearance at the event, in a Rasario Atelier ruffled-sleeve jumpsuit, styled by Rhea Kapoor and Namrata Soni.

In @rasarioatelier @louboutinworld by @rheakapoor MUA @namratasoni assisted by @spacemuffin27 @hot.hair.balloon for @chandonindia @rasrio A post shared by sonamkapoor (@sonamkapoor) on Mar 2, 2017 at 9:03am PST

She added, “She is an incredible artist. I was moved by her performance and Anarkali’s story of determination. I hope more films get opportunities and platforms like this. I hope the industry is changing.”

Directed by debutant Avinash Das, Anaarkali of Aarah is the story of a folk singer hailing from Ara district in Bihar.

Trailer aa gaya! Trailer aa gaya! #AnaarkaliOfAarahTrailer out now. See link in bio https://youtu.be/jHFT_PdLh20 A post shared by Swara Bhasker (@reallyswara) on Feb 23, 2017 at 6:31am PST

On a related note, Sonam and Swara have worked together in movies like Raanjhanaa and Prem Ratan Dhan Payo and are gearing up for their upcoming Rhea Kapoor-produced chick-flick Veere Di Wedding, alongside Kareena Kapoor Khan.

Further speaking about the effects of censorships and bans on movies and regular life, the 31-year-old actress said that censorship leads to rebellion. “I don’t believe in censorship. I think everybody should have their own choice- whether you want to be in a burkha or in a bikini. Everybody should be given a choice- in terms of religion, sexuality or dressing up. Nobody should be told what to do. The more you censor someone, the more you tell them what to do, there will be more rebellion. If we are not given a choice, then what is India about? We are supposed to be the largest democracy in the world,” she told media here.

Speaking about ‘refusal’ of certification, in 2017, three movies- Haraamkhor, Lipstick Under My Burkha and Ka Bodyscapes- have been denied clearance by CBFC, because of their bold subject.

Follow @htshowbiz for more 
