20170304 
GST rollout likely on July 1 as Centre, states reach consensus on key bills 
4-3-2017 
The Centre and states agreed on Saturday on two bills crucial to triggering a Goods and Services Tax, virtually clearing the path for a July 1 rollout of the country’s biggest tax reforms since independence.

The consensus came at a meeting of Finance Minister Arun Jaitley and his state counterparts, overcoming years of political differences on how to replace a slew of taxes such as excise duty and service tax for a nationwide GST.

Jaitley said the GST Council, which he heads and has state finance ministers, approved two legislation -- the Central GST and Integrated GST. These will now be ratified by Parliament and the states.

“July 1 looks possible for the rollout of GST,” Jaitley told reporters after the meeting.

The bills pave the way for four tax slabs.

“The applied rates will be 5%, 12%, 18% and 28%. The cap will be higher,” he said without elaborating on the higher limit. States want the higher limit set at 40%.

Successive governments have pushed to implement the GST, which will create a common market and help lower the tax burden, shore up government revenues, temper inflation and boost economic growth by 1-2 percentage points, analysts say.

But political differences over how to divvy up GST revenues or compensate states for lost income because of the new tax held up progress.

Saturday’s decision comes as a boost for Prime Minister Narendra Modi whose job of pushing the GST had been made more difficult by the fact that he does not enjoy a majority in the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of Parliament.

Government sources said the GST legislation will likely be taken up as money bills during the second half of the Budget session starting March 9. This means they can’t be rejected by the Rajya Sabha.

Jaitley said the GST Council will meet again on March 15-16 to clear some smaller issues, including a separate State GST bill which will formally empower provinces to levy the new tax. 
