20170304 
Who should replace Hugh Jackman as Logan? Take our poll, Shah Rukh’s in it too! 
4-3-2017 
For those of you who’ve seen Logan, you know that it ended on a conclusive note. And since Hugh Jackman, and Sir Patrick Stewart, have already announced they would not be returning as the iconic Wolverine and Professor X in future X-Men movies, it’s time for speculation.

Jackman recently said that he wouldn’t mind if the studio (20th Century Fox) were to recast the role once he’s done. He even joked that anyone could play the part, even Shah Rukh Khan.

Read more

Interestingly, as synonymous as he has become for playing the mutant (in nine movies), Jackman wasn’t always the first choice for the part. He joined the first X-Men film after it had already begun shooting and original Wolverine actor Dougray Scott had to drop out at the last moment.

But since the series is showing no signs of slowing down, we can begin the fan casting now. Don’t forget to vote for your favourite in the poll below.

Charlie Hunnam

Hunnam broke out in the ensemble biker drama Sons of Anarchy. He went on to star in major Hollywood movies like Pacific Rim and the upcoming King Arthur: Legend of the Sword.

Tom Hardy

Hardy’s performance as the uncompromising adversary to Leonardo DiCaprio’s character in The Revenant can seen as an audition to play Wolverine. He was tough as nails, brutal, and very, very grey.

One of the Hemsworths

There are three of them, and like Hugh Jackman, they’re all from Australia.

John Bernthal

After starring, and standing out, in the hit TV show The Walking Dead, Bernthal played several small roles in big movies, like The Wolf of Wall Street, Fury, and The Accountant. And as his scene stealing turn as The Punisher on Marvel’s Daredevil showed, he’s at his best playing gruff antiheroes.

Or maybe someone completely unexpected

Don’t forget, before Jackman was cast in the role, he was best known as a musical theatre actor with no experience in big movies. So perhaps they’d go the same route in casting the new Wolverine. Since Jackman has already thrown a couple of names out there (like SRK), a totally unexpected actor has a real chance to replace him.

Follow @htshowbiz for more 
