20170304 
Rape accused minister Prajapati’s passport impounded, look-out notice issued 
4-3-2017 
The passport of rape accused Uttar Pradesh minister Gayatri Prajapati was impounded on Saturday and a look-out notice was issued against him, hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi accused the Samajwadi Party and the Congress of chanting “Gayatri Prajapati Mantra”.

“Passport of rape accused minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati has been impounded,” additional director general (law and order) Daljit Chaudhary said.

He said UP Police will approach the ministry of external affairs to get the passport cancelled.

Chaudhary said a non-bailable warrant (NBW) had been issued against Prajapati and six others in connection with the case of alleged gang rape of a woman and attempt to rape her minor daughter.

He also said a look-out notice has been issued and raids were being conducted in Lucknow, Kanpur and Amethi to trace Prajapati who is absconding after he was booked under Supreme Court directive.

Read more

Saturday’s action came a day after airports across India were alerted about the possibility of Prajapati trying to flee the country.

Earlier in the day, at an election meeting in Jaunpur, Modi said, “In this country, when we do something good, we chant the Gayatri Mantra. But, the SP-Congress alliance is chanting the ‘Gayatri Prajapati Mantra’.

“A case has been lodged against him (but) the chief minister went to campaign for him while he (Gayatri) was present there... now, police cannot trace him,” Modi said.

Read more

“A daughter is seeking justice and the chief minister is shielding the gunehgaar (guilty)... what bigger blot can there be than this that in Uttar Pradesh when a buffalo goes missing, the government runs to find it.

“But, a girl is crying for justice and the police and chief minister are sleeping... such a government needs to be punished,” he said, reminding voters that have got an opportunity to perform the “pind daan” (last rites) of their “tormentors”. 
