20170305 
‘Climate of hate’: Sikh man shot at in Seattle, gunman shouted ‘go back to your country’ 
5-3-2017 
Police in a Seattle suburb were looking for a gunman who shot a Sikh man in the arm and told him to “go back to your own country,” the Seattle Times reported.

The victim (39) told police that he was working in his driveway about 8pm Friday when the unknown man came up to him, the Times reported.

An argument ensued, and the suspect told him to go back to his homeland, the victim said. The victim told police the man then shot him in the arm, the newspaper reported.

Read | Indian killed in Kansas: Hate crimes in US are rising since Trump assumed office

The victim told police that the shooter is 6-foot-tall, white and has a stocky build. The victim said the man was wearing a mask covering the lower half of his face.

The incident is the latest in a series of troubling cases where members of the Indian community have been targeted in apparent hate crimes.

Last month, an Indian engineer Srinivas Kuchibhotla was killed in Kansas when 51-year old US Navy veteran Adam Purinton opened fire at him and his friend Alok Madasani before yelling “get out of my country”.

Earlier this week, Indian-origin convenience store owner Harnish Patel, 43, of Lancaster in South Carolina was found dead with gun shot wounds.

Kent police told the newspaper that the agency has contacted the FBI and other law enforcement agencies about the incident.

“We’re early on in our investigation,” Kent police chief Ken Thomas said Saturday. “We are treating this as a very serious incident.”

Kent police commander Jarod Kasner said the incident is getting attention from the Sikh community and others. “With recent unrest and concern throughout the nation this can get people emotionally involved, especially when (the crime) is directed at a person for how they live, how they look,” Kasner said.

Jasmit Singh, a leader of the Sikh community in the nearby suburb of Renton, said he had been told the victim was released from the hospital, the Times reported.

Read more

“He is just very shaken up, both him and his family,” Singh told the newspaper. “We’re all kind of at a loss in terms of what’s going on right now, this is just bringing it home. The climate of hate that has been created doesn’t distinguish between anyone.”

Sikhs have previously been the target of attacks in the United States. After the September 11, 2001 attacks, the backlash that hit Muslims across the country expanded to include Sikhs and their faith as well, with some assuming the sight of a long beard and turbaned head can only mean one thing.

Sikhs often cover their heads with turbans, which are considered sacred, and refrain from shaving their beards.

Read more 
