20170305 
India vs Australia, 2nd Test Day 2: What’s happening right now 
5-3-2017 
David Warner got completely opened up by R Ashwin as he lost his off-stump. (Source: File) David Warner got completely opened up by R Ashwin as he lost his off-stump. (Source: File)

Given the need for an early wicket, Ravichandran Ashwin paired up with Ishant Sharma to open the bowling for the hosts on Day 2. He began with an attacking field for the left handers – a gully, a leg slip and short leg for Warner, and pursued a leg-side line in the hope the left-hander will do something rash.

And that is exactly what Warner did. Initially Warner just padded up to deliveries, but when Ashwin straightened it just a fraction, a huge off-break went past the outside edge of his forward defence. Warner got completely opened up and lost his off-stump. The seam position too was perfect.

It’s a big wicket for India and the entire team along with the crowd in Bengaluru seems pumped up.

Meanwhile, Renshaw is looking far less comfortable against Ashwin than Warner before. The opener, from Queensland, is trying to take the Warner route but is continuously flirting with danger.

While the spins twins will continue to attack from one end, the pacers are doing a good job to keep the flow of runs in check from the other. The intent, which seemed missing, is now there with India.

On the first day of the second Test against Australia, drama unfolded from the first session itself as India won the toss, elected to bat first and then once more collapsed like nine pins

The performer of the day was off-spinner Nathan Lyon who ended up with career-best figures of 8 for 50 as India were bundled out for a paltry 189. In the process, Lyon also surpassed Brett Lee to become Australia’s highest wicket-taker against India in Test matches. He right now has 58 wickets against India.

Live Cricket Score, India vs Australia, 2nd Test Day 2

On what proved to be another dodgy track, India’s last five wickets fell for only 15 runs in 9.3 overs after they were 174 for five at one stage. A gritty 90 from opener Lokesh Rahul was the lone bright spot in the embarrassing collapse. At stumps, Australia were comfortably placed at 40 for no loss. David Warner and Matt Renshaw were batting on 23 and 15 respectively.

The batting performance of India was quite similar to that of Pune with KL Rahul steering the ship at one end while wickets fell at regular intervals on the other. Rahul batted for 205 deliveries hitting nine boundaries with Karun Nair (26) being the only other batsman to cross an individual score of 20. His innings was an example of how to tackle Lyon. There were times he waited for the turn and played late.

Meanwhile, Steven O’ Keefe, who grabbed headlines in the first Test, did his bit and kept things tight from one end to allow Lyon to hunt his preys down. For India, the highlights were that Rahane’s torrid time with the bat against spin continued while skipper Kohli made a massive error in judgement against Nathan Lyon.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd 
