20170305 
Why I won’t forget the Boy Scout motto this Holi 
5-3-2017 
With Holi just around the corner I must remember to keep a couple of buckets of water ready — not coloured water, but plain and simple tap water so that when all the revelry and colour play is over, I can take a bath.

You see, last year, when all the fun was over and the drums had ceased to beat, I made for the bathroom so that I could bathe and be recognisable again — only to find that the taps had run dry! Not a drop of water in the house. And my neighbour was in the same predicament. We had to wait till late in the evening before a water-tanker arrived to relieve the situation.

So now, like a good boy scout, I shall be “well prepared”. That’s the old Scouts motto, in case you have forgotten. “Be prepared!” I shall have my buckets of water ready just in case the taps run dry again. I’m not a fanatic about bathing but it won’t do for me to turn up at the Cambridge Book Depot looking as though I’ve just fallen into a paint-box. “Old Bond is finally going round the bend,” I can hear someone say. “Now he’s signing colouring books!”

So why play Holi at all? Well, there’s a lot of goodwill involved in it, and I hate being a spoilsport. So why not join the merry throng and let my hair down for an hour or two? Also, it’s safer to run with the crowd than to run from it!

More people on planet Earth means more water shortages. And other shortages too.

When Edison invented the electric bulb everyone predicted that it would spell the end of the candle industry. But candles are everywhere. Our power shortages have seen to that.

Now everyone keeps a supply of candles. And if you run short you can go down the road and get as many as you want — ranging from small birthday-cake candles to candles as large as cricket bats, guaranteed to last a week.

Candle-making is both an art and an industry. Only last month we were informed (via the TV channels) that a certain politician, sent to jail, was immediately put to work making candles. I have no idea how candles are made, and I would rather not go to jail for a course in candle-making, but I’m told that candles are made out of wax, and that wax comes from candles. Now that sounds rather complicated. Like Yin and Yang. Or Verma and Sharma. Or Trumpet and Lumpet.

Anyway, I’ll say this for candles. You can tell when a candle is finishing. You can never tell when the lights are going out.

I learnt to live without light back in late 1950s, when I rented a couple of rooms in Dehradun’s Astley Hall complex. The electricity arrears hadn’t been paid for years and stood at an astronomical figure; neither my landlady nor I could clear them. So for two years I went without light. But I had equipped myself with a small kerosene lamp, and it enabled me to sit up late into the night, writing my early stories. Scores of stories were written by lamplight. And sometimes, when there were power cuts and the entire block was plunged into darkness, kids from the neighbouring flats would come over to my place to finish their homework.

There is something very dependable about an oil lamp. Candles burn themselves out, electricity is fickle, but given sufficient oil a lamp will give you company all through the night.

At night, even a blind man carried a lamp. “You’re blind, why do you carry a lamp?” asked a curious villager.

“So that fools don’t stumble against me in the dark,” came the answer.

I did miss my radio, which played on electricity, but around that time the transistor radio was invented, and this could be run on batteries; so I could join the rest of the population in listening to those ball-by-ball cricket commentaries.

In those good old bad old days most of our towns did not have proper sanitation, and as late as the 1960s the top hotels in Mussoorie did not have flush toilets. ‘Thunder-boxes’ were still the order of the day.

An enterprising young friend devised a portable toilet seat which could be used independently of a sewage system. He got me to help with a brochure and a name for his invention. We came up with the name ‘the Sit Safe’. He was delighted with this and gave me Rs 10 — the only time I have received a fee for doing an ad! I hope he made a fortune. 
