20170305 
Indian-origin Sikh attacked in US: Sushma Swaraj says spoke to family, victim recovering 
5-3-2017 
External affairs minister Sushma Swaraj reacted to the attack on an Indian-origin Sikh man in Kent, saying that she has spoken to the victim’s family and he is now out of danger. Deep Rai (39) was shot at outside his house on Saturday in Washington state by an unidentified gunman who reportedly said, “Go back to your country”.

“I am sorry to know about the attack on Deep Rai, a US national of Indian origin. I have spoken to Sardar Harpal Singh father of the victim,” Swaraj tweeted on Sunday.

I am sorry to know about the attack on Deep Rai a US national of Indian origin. I have spoken to Sardar Harpal Singh father of the victim./1 — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) March 5, 2017

He told me that his son had a bullet injury on his arm. He is out of danger and is recovering in a private hospital. /2 — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) March 5, 2017

In another post, Swaraj said Sardar Harpal Singh said his son had a bullet injury on his arm but was out of danger and is recovering at a private hospital.

IANS reported on Sunday the Indian consulate in San Francisco was in touch with local authorities after the attack.

Rai is able to talk, an Indian government official said. The official said the government was ready to offer all possible assistance to the wounded man.

Read more

Rai was working on his vehicle outside his home in Kent, Washington, on Friday when he was approached by a stranger, who walked up to his home’s driveway.

The attack on Rai comes is the third suspected hate crimes against Indians in the US within two weeks after Indian engineer Srinivas Kuchibhotla was shot dead at Kansas City bar and a few days later, an Indian-origin store owner in South Carolina was killed outside his home .

The 32-year-old Indian engineer Srinivas Kuchibhotla was killed in Kansas when a 51-year-old US Navy veteran Adam Purinton opened fire at him and his friend Alok Madasani, yelling “get out of my country”.

Earlier this week, Indian-origin convenience store owner Harnish Patel of Lancaster in South Carolina was found dead of gun shot wounds in his yard. However, police said in Patel’s killing his Indian ethnicity does not appear to be a factor.

Read more

(With agency inputs) 
