20170305 
Kuchibhotla murder, racial slurs: ‘Hate crimes’ against Indians in US 
5-3-2017 
A Sikh man was shot at in his driveway in Kent, Washington district by a masked assailant who shouted at him to “go back to your own country”, days after an Indian engineer, Srinivas Kuchibhotla was shot dead at a bar in Kansas.

The masked assailant walked up to the victim, a 39-year-old Sikh who was working on his car in the driveway, had an argument with him following which he shot him on the arm, and told him to return to his country.

A few days ago, an Indian-origin businessman was shot outside his house in South Carolina.

This isn’t the first time that Indians have been targeted in the US. Here’s a look at attacks on Indians in the US:

2017:

March 2: Harnish Patel, a 43-year-old Indian-origin store owner in South Carolina, US, was shot dead outside his home.

The owner of a convenience store in Lancaster County, Patel was found dead with gunshot wounds in the front yard of his home.

February 22: Indian engineer Srinivas Kuchibhotla was killed and friend Alok Madasani was injured when a man opened fire at them at a bar in a Kansas. The alleged shooter, a US Navy veteran named Adam Purinton, thought the two were Middle Easterners and was heard calling them “terrorists” before telling them to “get out of my country”.

2016

November 20: Nicki Pancholy, a 41-year-old Indian- American, was attacked in California after her bandana was mistaken for a hijab. The Rajasthani woman has been battling Lupus, which causes hair loss, and wore the bandanna for protection from the sun.

Read more

May 30: Davinder Singh, 47, was shot dead at his gas station in Newark, New Jersey. His family described it as hate crime as many Sikhs are mistaken for people from the Middle East because of their turban. His son, Jatinder Singh, told a TV news network, “There was no robbery, no struggle, no confrontation. I don’t know what else it could be other than a hate crime.”

2015

February 26: The Kent Hindu Temple in Washington state was vandalised with several windows broken and the word “fear” painted on its wall.

February 15: A similar incident had taken place a couple of weeks earlier, when unidentified miscreants sprayed swastika and painted “Get Out” on one of the walls of the Bothell Hindu Temple in the Seattle Metropolitan area.

2013

July 29: An unknown group of men vandalised a gurdwara in California and spray-painted the word “terrorist” on its walls.

May 5: An elderly Sikh man was brutally beaten up outside a gurdwara in Fresno, California.

February 26: A Sikh man was shot and injured while driving home from work with his son in Florida. The victim, 47-year-old Kanwaljit Singh recovered from a surgery while his 13-year-old son escaped unhurt.

Read more

2012

August 5: An army veteran killed six Sikh men after going on a shooting spree in Oak Creek, Wisconsin.

2011

March 6: Two Sikh men were killed by gunmen in California’s Sacramento

2001

September 15: Balbir Singh Sodhi, a gas station owner in Messa, Arizona, was killed just days after 9/11 by a man who was looking for “towel-heads” to avenge the attacks. 
