20170305 
India vs Australia: DRS hits Virat Kohli & Co for a four in Bangalore Test 
5-3-2017 
India’s inability to use the Decision Review System (DRS) to their benefit has added to their struggle in the ongoing Test series against Australia and the second day’s play of the Bangalore Test provided further examples of their poor judgement. (DAY 1 HIGHLIGHTS)

It also showed how smart Australia have been with the system. Their batsman Shaun Marsh got involved in three incidents and emerged the beneficiary each time. (SCORECARD)

India’s struggle with DRS on Sunday began with Australia skipper Steve Smith’s reprieval during the morning session. R Ashwin’s leg-before appeal was turned down and India took the review. However, the ball-tracker showed the ball just clipping leg-stump, which meant it was the umpire’s call. The not out decision stood.

THE REVIEW NEVER CAME

India missed another one after lunch, when Shaun Marsh was on 14. Umesh Yadav beat the batsman, and wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha went up in appeal for caught behind.

The bowler joined him as an afterthought but Virat Kohli did not press for a review. TV replays, however, showed the ball had brushed Marsh’s glove on way to Saha. A review would have allowed Indian bowlers to bring the Aussies under pressure as Marsh went on to score a half-century and help the visitors take lead.

READ | ‘We are in his mind’: Matthew Hayden taunts Virat Kohli after dismal show

Saha, whose calls have come under scrutiny, for once would have been proved right.

Australia showed how it should be done when Shaun Marsh was on 44 in the post-tea session. Umesh Yadav’s leg-before appeal was upheld, but the batsman reviewed after consulting partner Mathew Wade. The impact was outside the line and the decision was reversed.

TWO DOWN THE DRAIN

India lost a second review of the day after the reviews were reset following 80 overs in the innings. A leg before appeal by Ashwin against Marsh was ruled not out, and after discussing with the bowler and Saha, Kohli sought the review. It, however, showed Marsh had played the ball on to the pad.

It wasn’t long before India lost the remaining review too. Ashwin appealed for a catch after the ball brushed Mathew Wade on way to slip. A reluctant call for review saw his worst fears come true --- the ball had missed the glove and only brushed the batsman’s shoulder.

READ | India vs Australia: Ishant Sharma makes ‘monkey face’ to upset Steve Smith

India had agreed to use DRS only before the England series, but their problems in the current series have been compounded by a lack of method.

Their misses have added to the 333-run defeat in the first Test in Pune and their small 189-run total in the first innings of this Test. 
