20170305 
Ravindra Jadeja takes 3, but Shaun Marsh, Matt Renshaw help Australia take lead 
5-3-2017 
India cricket team bowlers led a grim battle against the Australia cricket team batsmen to pull back the advantage of the visitors on an attritional Day 2 of the second Test at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium on Sunday..(DAY 2 HIGHLIGHTS)

Australia batsmen showed remarkable application, the kind of patience their Indian counterparts did not show as they were shot out for 189 in their first innings on the first day. (SCORECARD)

Opening batsman Matt Renshaw showed maturity far beyond his 20 years to score 60, his second half-century of the series. Fellow left-hander Shaun Marsh took over from there, scoring 66 to give Australia a crucial first innings lead. (LIVE STREAMING)

Left-arm spinner Ravindra Jadeja’s three wickets backed by lion-hearted efforts from pacers Ishant Sharma and Umesh Yadav, and Ravichandran Ashwin, who bowled a marathon 41 overs but took just one wicket, kept Australia’s lead under check.

Read more | ‘We are in his mind’: Matthew Hayden taunts Virat Kohli after dismal show

At stumps, Australia were for 237 for six,ts, a lead of 48 runs. Mathew Wade was batting on 25 and Mitchell Starc was 14 not out.

Tensions flare during must-watch morning of Test cricket on day two: https://t.co/fcZcikGTfv #INDvAUS pic.twitter.com/NBdqp1MtVH — cricket.com.au (@CricketAus) March 5, 2017

India managed to take just one wicket in the final session, that of Shaun Marsh, but would have been into the tail if Wriddhiman Saha had not dropped a tough chance off Starc, India’s third clear lapse in this innings.

INTENSE BATTLE

It was attritional cricket at its best and off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin provided the first breakthrough when he bowled opener David Warner in the sixth over of the day, the ball zipping off the rough outside the left-hander’s leg-stump.

Read more | India vs Australia: Ishant Sharma makes ‘monkey face’ to upset Steve Smith

With Virat Kohli employing a pace-spin attack, runs came in a trickle. Australia scored just 47 runs losing two wickets in the morning and 76 runs for three wickets in the afternoon, reaching 163 for five at tea.

Jadeja, surprisingly not given a decent spell early, struck in his third over of the morning to have Steven Smith, who hit a century in the first Test in Pune, caught by wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha off bat and pad, for eight.

Taken off immediately, but brought back midway into the post-lunch session he accounted for Renshaw, having the increasingly confident opener stumped down the leg side, before dismissing Peter Handscomb (16), caught by a leaping Ashwin at midwicket off his second attempt.

Yeah that was close... #INDvAUS pic.twitter.com/L37aItFyJw — cricket.com.au (@CricketAus) March 5, 2017

Ishant trapped Mitch Marsh (0) at the stroke of tea, but Shaun Marsh held firm, scoring his sixth Test fifty and raising a 57-run sixth wicket partnership with Mathew Wade, having put on a 52-run third wicket stand with Renshaw.

Read more | DRS hits Virat Kohli & Co for a four in Bangalore Test

Shaun Marsh also had the better of the DRS, but Umesh Yadav eventually had him caught at midwicket. He would have removed the dangerous Mitchell Starc three balls later, but Saha dropped the catch diving to his left. India, who dropped Smith alone four times in the first Test in Pune, have dropped three so far in the Aussie innings.

THE DRS BATTLE

But Shaun Marsh not only won the battle of stepping up the scoring, he also came out victor in three reviews as India again lost the plot in handling DRS.

A good review from Shaun Marsh. Australia now trail by 13 runs: https://t.co/iGxoJAaz64 #INDvAUS pic.twitter.com/HAquGM6Ang — cricket.com.au (@CricketAus) March 5, 2017

The hosts lost all three reviews they took on Sunday, one against Smith and another against Shaun Marsh, both leg before appeals by Ashwin. The exhausted their chances when the next one, an appeal for catch against Mathew Wade also proved wrong.

India lost the first Test by 333 runs and were dismissed for 189 in their first innings in Bangalore, after spinner Nathan Lyon’s record 8/50. 
