20170306 
Badrinath Ki Dulhania: Meet Varun Dhawan’s brother and friend from the film 
6-3-2017 
Filmmaker Karan Johar had revealed on his show that Bollywood actors Varun Dhawan and Alia Bhatt are more excited than the marketing team for their upcoming release, Badrinath Ki Dulhania . But they are not the only ones keyed up about it.

Read more

There are two other major characters in the film - Badri aka Varun’s elder brother and friend. While Sahil Vaid reprises his role from Humpty Sharma ki Dulhaniya as Varun’s friend, TV actor Yash Sinha will be seen as Varun’s elder brother. Yash will even be seen romancing Shweta Basu Prasad.

In a candid conversation with Hindustan Times, Sahil Vaid said, “I play a local Jhansi boy who is very good friend of Badri and practically grew up in hi house. They have grown up with a lot of ‘Uttar Pradesh ideology’.”

Sahil poses with Varun Dhawan and Alia Bhatt during a promotional event for Badrinath ki Dulhania.

Sahil - who played Poplu in Humpty Sharma ki Dulhania - essays the role of Somnath in the new film. “ I don’t know how second lead, third lead works, but I am there for a major part of the plot. Of course, it is a love story and Varun and Alia play the lovers. But, if they are engine, I am the oil - that’s how it works,” he said.

Read more

Sahil further said that Varun has the most lines and his character comes next. “Heroines don’t speak much. So yes, I have more lines than Alia. Most of the times, our heroes are chasing the heroines around and making them speak.”

Varun and Sahil on the sets of Badrinath ki Dulhania.

“And when they speak, they say something that hurts the hero, and then he goes back to heal himself. It happens in all the films and it happens here. Only, it happens a little differently,” the actor said.

On the other hand, Yash Sinha - last seen in the TV show Code Red - will essay the role of Varun’s elder brother who has been paired opposite Shweta. “I am happy to get the role in Karan Johar’ movie. It was a great experience shooting with the team,” he told Hindustan Times.

Yash earlier worked in shows like Bhagyavidhaata, Har Ghar Kuch Kehta Hai and Teen Bahuraaniyaan.

Directed by Shashank Khaitan, Badrinath Ki Dulhania is slated to release on March 10. Alia Bhatt plays the titular bride.

Follow @htshowbiz for more 
