20170306 
26/11 attacks carried out by Pakistan-based terror group, says former Pak NSA Durrani 
6-3-2017 
Pakistan’s former national security adviser Mahmud Ali Durrani said on Monday the 26/11 Mumbai attacks was carried out by a terror-group based in Pakistan and called it a “classic” example of cross-border terrorism.

He, however, said the Pakistani government had no role in the attack. Durrani was speaking at a conference on combating terrorism at the Institute of Defence Studies and Analysis.

Durrani was sacked from the post of national security adviser for confirming Mumbai attacker Ajmal Kasab’s Pakistani nationality to the media.

More than 160 people, including many foreigners, were killed in the 2008 Mumbai attacks India says was carried out by 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba militants. Nine of the attackers were killed and lone survivor Ajmal Kasab was captured and later hanged in 2012.

#WATCH: Former Pakistan NSA Mahmud Ali Durrani says 26/11 attack was carried out by terror group based in Pakistan. pic.twitter.com/cBmzSFnbK2 — ANI (@ANI_news) March 6, 2017

Prime suspect LeT operations commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, believed to be the mastermind of the Mumbai attacks, is in hiding after getting bail over a year ago.

American citizen David Headley, who admitted scouting targets for the 2008 assault on Mumbai by Pakistani militants, has testified that the plot was hatched with at least one Pakistani intelligence official and a navy frogman.

The attacks trial’s sluggish pace and lack of convictions has been a thorn in bilateral relations and India has maintained that crucial evidence was to be found in Pakistan, the site of training and plotting of the 26/11 strikes that killed 166 people.

Durrani also said Lashkar-e-Taiba Hafiz Saeed has no utility and Pakistan should act against him.

India has asked Pakistan to re-investigate the 2008 Mumbai attacks case and put on trial Saeed, who is currently under house arrest in Lahore under the anti-terrorism law.

India made the fresh demand in response to Pakistan’s request to send 24 Indian witnesses for recording their statements in the case.

With inputs from PTI

Read more 
