20170306 
After Karan Johar, Gurmeet and Debina plan to adopt two girls from Bihar 
6-3-2017 
Days after filmmaker Karan Johar announced that he has turned a father to twins, TV actors Gurmeet Chaudhary and Debina Bonerjee have revealed that they plan to adopt two girls.

A Pune Mirror report said the couple will adopt Pooja and Lata, aged six and nine, soon. Debina and Gurmeet met the girls when they were in Jarampur to attend a family wedding in 2014. Gurmeet’s parents are settled there and that’s where Pooja was living with her uncle and first cousin Lata, it added.

Read more

Gurmeet’s mom, Anmol, is a Hindi school teacher and his father, Sitaram is a retired army officer.

After Lata’s father passed away last year, the two girls moved in with a distant relative and Gurmeet’s mother realised that the children would have to work in people’s homes as domestic help to sustain themselves.

“After hearing about their plight from my mother I discussed them with my wife. Debina agreed with me that it was time to give the kids a home, a deserving education and my last name,” Gurmeet told the tabloid.

Read more

“All the paperwork is done. We will be going to Jarampur for the final signatures after Holi. It is a two-day process. Everybody, including my parents, keep asking me when I’m planning a baby. Well, it’s official now, I’m bringing home two daughters and we couldn’t be more excited,” Gurmeet added.

“After one academic year, they will shift in with us in our Andheri home by 2018. My brother and his family live in Patna and they will be around to see that they are well cared for. Debina and I will travel to Patna three-four times in the year and stay there through their summer vacation too,” he further said. He also informed the tabloid that the girls have started watching his shows in a bid to know him better.

Read more

His wife and actor Debina told the tabloid, ““The general belief is that you only adopt if you can’t have children of your own. That’s not true at all. Both Debina and I love kids and plan to have a couple of our own in the future. And when they come along they will be siblings for Pooja and Lata and all the Choudharys will happily live together under one roof.”

Hindustan Times could not independently verify the report.

Gurmeet married Debina in 2011 and he describes his relationship with the actress as mature. “Our relationship has matured into many more things,” he had earlier said.

Follow @htshowbiz for more 
