20170306 
Sakshi Malik, Haryana govt spar over Olympics rewards: Fact check on 5 promises 
6-3-2017 
Haryana’s controversial sports minister Anil Vij on Sunday rejected wrestler Sakshi Malik’s claim that the state government was yet to honour its “promises” made to her for winning an Olympics bronze medal last year.

Vij said some people might have “prevailed upon” Malik to tweet raising questions about the state government’s commitment.

“We gave a cheque of Rs 2.5 crore the day she landed in India (after the Olympics event),” Vij said.

Soon after, the 24-year-old Malik thanked him on Twitter.

I m highly thnkful to HARYANA Government for the monetary appreciation bt REST OF THE PROMISES r yet 2 be fulfilled @cmohry @anilvijminister — Sakshi Malik (@SakshiMalik) March 5, 2017

Here’s what the Haryana government promised Malik, and their status:

CASH REWARD

Rs 2.5 crore cash prize as per state’s sports policy

Status: Cheque given

PROMISE OF JOB

Post of wrestling director at Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak

Status: Pending. Sports minister Anil Vij says it requires the creation of a new post.

MOTHER’S PROMOTION

Promotion of Malik’s mother, Sudesh, from an anganwadi supervisor to a child development project officer

Status: Pending. No explanation given

REWARD FOR COACH

Rs 10 lakh cash award to coach

Status: Pending. Vij says Malik has to pick one from her three-four coaches for the reward

FREE LAND

500 sq yards of government land at concessional rate was to be given to Malik.

Status: Pending. Sports minister says the wrestler hasn’t yet applied for it.

Read more

Haryana sportspersons back Malik

Sakshi has found support from two famous athletes of the state – wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt, an Olympic medallist, and boxer Akhil Kumar.

“Haryana’s sports policy is the best in the country. Haryana has contributed an Olympic medal for India, so Sakshi Malik must get her deserved dues,” Dutt said.

Kumar said, “Sometimes delays happen due to government formalities and procedures. But be assured, whatever government announces, it delivers. I’m hopeful that Sakshi Malik’s posts may fast track the procedures from now.”

(With inputs from ANI) 
