20170306 
Pujara, Rahane lead India’s fightback in Bangalore Test 
6-3-2017 
Cheteshwar Pujara’s unbeaten 79 and his 93-run stand with Ajinkya Rahane (40), backed up by KL Rahul’s third fifty of the series helped India fight back superbly in the third Test against Australia after the big setback of skipper Virat Kohli’s fourth cheap dismissal in a row. (DAY 3 HIGHLIGHTS)

FIFTY! @cheteshwar1 brings up his 14th Test 50 @Paytm Test Cricket #INDvAUS pic.twitter.com/lbLGpi5HLL — BCCI (@BCCI) March 6, 2017

Rahul made 51 to follow up on his first-innings 90 but Australia pacer Josh Hazlewood struck three quick blows to leave the hosts in danger of another batting collapse.(SCORECARD)

However, Pujara dug in and the 93-run stand with Rahane became the highest stand in the series as India reached 213 for four at stumps, not losing a wicket for the entire evening session at the M Chinnaswamy stadium.LIVE STREAMING)

India touched the 200-run mark for the first time in the series, and in four innings. It gave them a crucial lead of 126 runs, which had looked unlikely after Rahul, Virat Kohli (15) and Ravindra Jadeja (2), promoted to No 5, all fell in quick succession.

Read more | Why this Australian is losing respect for India cricket team skipper Virat Kohli

Ravindra Jadeja picked up 6/63, his second best career bowling figures as Australia’s lead was restricted to just 87 runs. (BCCI)

Left-arm spinner Jadeja, earlier, led India’s bowling fightback in the morning, grabbing his second best career figures of 6/63 by running through the Australian tail. He claimed the last three wickets in the space of 10 deliveries.

Australia were 276 all out midway through the session as India restricted their first innings lead to 87 runs, their bowlers completing the job after giving away little in an intense second day’s play.

KL Rahul stroked his third half-century of the series as he became the leading run-getter in the current India vs Australia series. (BCCI)

The Big turnaround

Pujara initially struggled against Nathan Lyon, the Aussie off-spinner who captured eight for 50 to dismiss India for 189 in their first innings. However, with Rahul again looking untroubled and rotating the strike at the other end, Pujara settled down.

Fourth Test 50 for @klrahul11. This is his third of the series so far @Paytm #INDvAUS pic.twitter.com/qbxUqLyyYu — BCCI (@BCCI) March 6, 2017

Pujara was dropped by skipper Steven Smith at slip off Lyon, and he continued to have a close shave many times as the off-spinner got some off the deliveries to bounce a bit more. The batsman was also beaten by turn on several occasions.

However, the confidence grew as the partnership progressed with Rahane, criticised for his weakness against spin on Indian pitches, settling down to give Pujara company.

Virat Kohli was dismissed for a low score for the fourth consecutive innings as he fell LBW to Josh Hazlewood. (BCCI)

Virat Kohli departs cheaply

The remarkable fightback didn’t look like it would materialise after Hazlewood reduced them to 120 for four. The major talking point again was the cheap dismissal of skipper Virat Kohli.

Kohli, out for 0 and 13 in the first Test in Pune, which India lost by 333 runs in three days, and for 12 in the first innings, was beaten by a Hazlewood delivery that kept low and was given out leg before.

OUT or NOT OUT ? Richard Kettleborough thought it was out. What do you think ? #Virat @Paytm #INDvAUS pic.twitter.com/ytG40lfuwt — BCCI (@BCCI) March 6, 2017

Kohli, under pressure in this series and with his team in trouble, straightaway reviewed it. Several replays didn’t confirm whether he had got a bottom edge on to pad, which meant it was left to the umpire to stick with his original decision.

His promotion of Jadaja (2) to No 5 to get a left-right combination in the middle didn’t last much as the all-rounder was bowled by Hazlewood, but Rahane joined Pujara to bring the Aussies under pressure for the first time in the series. 
