20170306 
More women taking up leadership positions in India: LinkedIn report 
6-3-2017 
Even as there is still low gender parity in workplace, India is making great strides in eliminating it by gaining highest momentum (25%) in the world with more and more women taking leadership positions, according to a report.

According to a report by LinkedIn, India, which has historically lagged in hiring women into leadership positions, has gained significant momentum with the largest percentage increase being hired into leadership roles (25%).

However, the report has revealed that in terms of women currently holding leadership positions India is among the lowest, indicating that there are still barriers which needs to be overcome.

Out of the 10 countries in the report Canada, the US and France have the highest percentage of women in leadership, with an average of one third of women holding roles of director-level and above.

The report is based on LinkedIn data globally, including that of India, showing how members choose to use the site, which can vary based on professional, social and regional culture.

Further, the report also revealed that globally there is close leadership gap is sectors like education and non-profit industries.

Read more

The education and non-profit sector is leading the way in closing the gap between male and women leaders, it said

In these sectors, women are being hired for 47% of leadership positions, the report added.

Healthcare and pharmaceuticals also has a high number of women in leadership with nearly half of leadership positions being held by women (46%).

The report said the technology industry witnessed the largest change with a 18% increase in women leaders hired.

As per the report, however, the oil and energy industry reduced its hiring of women leaders by 5%.

The top three job titles that have seen the strongest growth are all technology roles, including user experience designer (67% increase), chief technology officer (60% increase) and web developer (40% increase).

Meanwhile, it also found that even with 56% women holding the position of chief human resource officer, women CEOs still make up only 18% of the workforce.

At the director-level, hiring for women in the Director of Information Technology role has increased by 57% since 2008.

LinkedIn report also showed that diversity and inclusion is becoming a priority for companies worldwide.

More than 37% of talent acquisition leaders believe that diversity will be the number one trend defining the future of hiring, it added. 
