20170307 
Here are the 10 news stories of the day to look out for 
7-3-2017 
From updates on PM Narendra Modi’s Gujarat visit to North Korea banning Malaysian citizens from leaving the country, watch out for the following news:

1- PM Modi in Gujarat on a two-day visit

Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be on a two-day visit to Gujarat starting today, during which he will attend a number of events and meetings. During the visit, Modi will inaugurate a national convention of women sarpanches, address an industry meet, inaugurate a four-lane bridge over Narmada river in Bharuch and visit the Somnath temple. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani will host a dinner for Modi in Gandhinagar, where state ministers and MPs are expected to be present.

2- Congress to gherao Haryana assembly over alleged land scams

Congress workers plan to gherao the Haryana assembly today to protest against the alleged encroachment of hundreds of acres of forest and municipal land by BJP leaders in league with builders in Gurgaon. The party alleges that 454 acres of municipal land in Gwal Pahari was transferred to private parties at the behest of the BJP leadership and that the route of the Metro line in Gurgaon has been changed to suit special interests.

Read the full story here.

3- Saina Nehwal, PV Sindhu lead India’s challenge at All England championships

Olympic medallists Saina Nehwal and P V Sindhu will look to become the third Indian to win prestigious All England trophy when they play at the Super Series Premier tournament that starts with qualifiers in London today. Both Saina and Sindhu have made a strong start to the new season with titles at Malaysia Masters and Syed Modi Grand Prix Gold tournaments in January and they would look to make a positive start to the Super Series circuit, which also includes events at India, Malaysia and Singapore.

You may also want to read:

4- Hindu Americans furious at ‘negative portrayal’ in Reza Aslan’s new show on CNN

A number of Hindu Americans were up in arms against CNN for airing a show which they alleged portrays Hinduism in a negative light. ‘Believer with Reza Aslan’, a six-episode “spiritual adventures series”, was premiered Sunday. The show explores the facts and myths behind the Aghori, a mystical Hindu sect known for extreme rituals.

5- Kim Jong-Nam killing: Pyongyang bans Malaysians from leaving North Korea

Pyongyang is banning all Malaysian citizens from leaving North Korea, state media said on Tuesday, potentially holding them hostage amid an increasingly heated diplomatic row over the killing of Kim Jong-Nam in Kuala Lumpur.

Read the full story here.

6- New Israeli law bars entry to foreigners supporting Israel boycott

Israel’s parliament on Monday passed a law barring foreigners who publicly support an anti-Israel boycott from entering the country. “In recent years calls to boycott Israel have been growing,” parliament said on its website after the law was approved. “It seems this is a new front in the war against Israel, which until now the country had not prepared for properly.”

Read the full story here.

7- Will we get jobs and reputation back, ask three men framed by ‘Sonepat bravehearts’

“Insaaf to mila, izzat aur naukri kahan se aayegi? (We got justice, but how will we get back our prestige or jobs?),” asks Mohit. He is one of the three Haryana youth discharged last week by a local court of charges of harassing two sisters on a bus about two years ago. A video of the three men being thrashed on a bus by two girls, Aarti and Pooja, on being allegedly harassed went viral and the sisters were quickly hailed as ‘Sonepat bravehearts’.

Read the full story here.

8- Stephens to offer Political Science as DU adds new courses this academic year

Soon students will be able to apply for courses of their choice in preferred colleges in Delhi University. The university decided to launch additional courses in some of its 63 affiliated colleges from this academic session, after its executive council approved a proposal for introduction of new subjects. The move will allow St Stephen’s College and Gargi College to offer honours courses in political science and economics respectively.

Read the full story here.

9- SpiceJet to reserve single row seats for solo women passengers

Budget passenger carrier SpiceJet on Monday announced that starting Wednesday, it will reserve single row seats only for solo women passengers on all its flights. According to the airline, the fourth row seats would be reserved for the airline’s solo women passengers on all its flights, starting March 8, International Women’s day.

Read the full story here.

10- Madhya Pradesh cop fat-shamed by Shobhaa De thanks her for tweet

Madhya Pradesh cop Daulatram Jogawat has thanked writer Shobhaa De for tweeting his picture, which helped him come to Mumbai for treatment. He was discharged on Monday after weight-reduction surgery.

Read the story here. 
