20170307 
Grooms not wanted: Demand for US-based men falls in great Indian wedding market 
7-3-2017 
US President Donald Trump has managed to reverse a trend that not even recession could – the demand for NRI grooms. Following sporadic incidents of violence and hate crimes against Indians in America, in the wake of Trump’s call to reclaim American jobs for the Americans, parents of prospective brides are not too keen on marrying their daughters off to those settled in the US.

Read more

“We have witnessed a 25% decline in queries for NRI grooms, especially those in the US, in the last two months itself. While this number has been on a steady decline since November, the sharpest fall has come in February, due to the political developments in the US,” says Richa Garg, manager at the matrimonial website Shaadi.com.

We have witnessed a 25% decline in queries for NRI grooms, especially those in the US, in the last two months itself. While this number has been on a steady decline since November, the sharpest fall has come in February: Richa Garg, manager at the matrimonial website Shaadi.com

The same is echoed by Niti Jha, vice-president, Sycorian Matrimonial Services based in South Delhi. “NRI grooms are not in demand anymore. Donald Trump’s immigration policies have made Indian parents worried. Considering the recent events in the US where Indians were attacked, it’s not a safe option anymore”

Real estate agent Pankaj Malhotra, 56, has been desperately looking for a suitable Indian girl for his doctor nephew, doing rather well financially in Austin, Texas. What his family thought would be a cakewalk has become a tricky task, he says. Most girls he shortlisted have one condition – Please ask the boy to come back to India. We don’t want to live in the US. “This is shocking. Indian girls are not keen to settle in America anymore. They think it’s much safer to live in India,” says Malhotra.

Since January, there has been approximately 50% decline in queries for US-based grooms and brides. We are still trying to decode the trend statistically: Gaurav Chhabra, co-founder of Royal Matrimony.com

Gaurav Chhabra, co-founder of Royal Matrimony.com shares that just a few days ago, one of the families who came to him looking for a good NRI groom, have suddenly changed their mind, strictly shifting their preference to ‘settled in India only’. “Since January, there has been approximately 50% decline in queries for US-based grooms and brides. We are still trying to decode the trend statistically,” he says.

The recent attacks on Indians in US have left parents scared. Mira Singh, a homemaker based in Delhi who earlier preferred a US-based match for her 27-year-old doctor daughter says, “The rise in hate crime against Indians has left me very afraid. As parents, safety for our children is paramount. I’d much rather have my daughter safe here in India, even if it means having to compromise on the quality of life NRIs have in the US.”

Vijay Singh, a businessman in Central Delhi, says, “For the past one year, I was looking for an America-settled guy for my daughter because she always had a dream to settle in the US. I don’t think it’s a good idea anymore. We have changed the preference to ‘settled in India’ in our matrimonial registration. It’s much safer. What does America have now that we don’t? And then they are threatening and killing Indians.”

(Some names have been changed on request) 
