20170307 
SC order has revived hopes of fair trial in Bihar road rage case, say victim’s parents 
7-3-2017 
Gaya: The Supreme Court’s order cancelling the bail of road rage case prime accused Rocky Yadav has again revived hopes of the victim’s family of a fair trial.

Parents of Aditya Sachdeva, a Class 12 student, who was killed for allegedly overtaking Rocky Yadav’s vehicle in Bihar’s Gaya district on May 7 last year, on Tuesday thanked chief minister Nitish Kumar for “keeping his words and exerting efforts to get the bail cancelled”.

“The Monday order of the Supreme Court has enhanced our faith in judiciary. We also thank the chief minister for his prompt initiative to get Rocky Yadav’s bail, granted earlier by the Patna high court, cancelled. Had the state government not moved the Supreme Court, we would not have been able to ensure justice for our son,” Aditya’s father Shyam Sundar Sachdeva, a trader, and mother Chanda Sachdeva said.

READ: Bihar road rage: Friends recall the night Aditya was killed

“The chief minister during his visit to our residence last year had assured justice to the family. He had told us that the police would leave no stone unturned to bring the accused persons to justice. He has kept his promises and we are now hopeful of getting justice,” the Sachdevas said.

READ: Aditya murder: Justice will be served, Nitish tells grieving parents

When asked about eyewitnesses turning hostile in the trial court, the Sachdevas said: “The police have gathered sufficient circumstantial evidences. We had earlier called on senior superintendent of police Garima Malik who assured us that police would submit a strong case against the accused in the trial court.”

READ: Charge sheet filed in Aditya Sachdeva murder case

“We had lost all hopes for justice after the high court granted bail to all the named accused as we could not afford to take the legal battle to the top court. We had no option but to rely on the words of the chief minister,” they said.

The family also expressed its trust in the Gaya police and the SSP who they said had been very compassionate .

Rocky Yadav, son of suspended JD(U) MLC Manorama Devi and alleged history-sheeter Bindi Yadav, is accused of killing Aditya Sachdeva, who was in a Maruti car, for overtaking his SUV on the Gaya-Bodh Gaya road. Three days after the road rage incident, Rocky Yadav was arrested from his father’s mixer plant in Gaya.

In its final investigation report submitted to the trial court, the police named Rocky Yadav, his cousin Teni Yadav and his mother’s bodyguard Rajesh Kumar as accused, apart from charging Bindi Yadav with harbouring his son.

. 
