20170307 
Lucknow: Suspected terrorist opens fire at security forces in Thakurganj, encounter underway 
7-3-2017 
Lucknow encounter: Deferred visuals of the police outside the house. Lucknow encounter: Deferred visuals of the police outside the house.

A suspected terrorist opened fired at security forces in Thakurganj area of Lucknow, on Tuesday afternoon. The Uttar Pradesh Anti Terror Squad is currently engaged in an anti-terror operation in Thakurganj area of Lucknow. The area is among the densely populated areas of Lucknow. Security officials had to fire tear-gas shells into the house where the suspect is holed up. The suspect has been identified as Saifullah but there was no official confirmation of the same.

Civilians residing in the area have been moved away and the ATS has surrounded the structure where the suspect is currently holed up. The security officials are not sure of the number of suspects inside the house. While there was initial firing, it has now stopped. The security personnel are reaching out to the suspect hopeful that he will surrender, but he has reportedly declined to surrender. The security personnel will have to ascertain the amount and kind of weapons present with the suspect before they plan on their next move. The other option with the police is to storm the house and neutralise the suspect. A high-level meeting between government and police officials is currently underway.

Meanwhile, the Union government is reportedly monitoring the situation in Lucknow very closely. Home Secretary Rajiv Mehrishi has briefed Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh about the developments in Lucknow.

There could also be a possibility of the suspect having links to the recent train accidents, news channel India Today reports, but none of this has been confirmed by the authorities.

Today’s encounter comes hours before Uttar Pradesh goes to vote in the seventh and last phase of polling.

Suspected terrorist holed up by UP ATS in Thakurganj area of Lucknow. Operation in progress. (Visuals deferred by unspecified time) pic.twitter.com/fHDHM7b2tQ — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) March 7, 2017

More details are awaited.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd 
