20170307 
Tech Mahindra sets up ‘Factory of the Future’ lab in Bengaluru 
7-3-2017 
Tech Mahindra today announced that it has set up a “state-of-the-art” lab at its campus here, which works on technologies that are expected to power the future factory floors.

Known as the “Factory of the Future” lab, the new centre showcases assets and solutions in the areas of Digital Manufacturing, Connected Machines, Addictive Manufacturing, Robotics & Automation, Artificial Intelligence & Analytics, and Augmented Reality & Virtual Reality, the company said in a statement here.

It also said the lab will demonstrate solutions and products built in association with many leading software and hardware vendors, adding that it is built in modular form to showcase Industry 4.0 concepts that are central to be able to help building the digital backbone of client organisations.

“Industries world-over are going through a massive transformation, a transformation that is driven by the advances in newer technologies, especially things like IoT and Robotics,” Tech Mahindra President and COO L Ravichandran said.

“As a trusted Digital Transformation partner for client organisations, we have taken lead in these areas and have invested in building capabilities to harness the opportunities,” he said.

Manufacturing or industrial segment is the one where the impact of technology is much more visible than others, the company added.

It further said the industry is now at a cusp of embracing the next generation of automation wherein robots will work alongside humans in a connected factory floor that is powered by technologies such as AI, Robotic & Automation, Machine Learning amplified by increasing use of Big Data and Analytics in decision-making.

In the newer phase, technology will be the backbone of manufacturing industry which is expected to shed around 50 million jobs globally while at the same time improving the efficiency and productivity significantly, because of the investment in new automation capabilities, it added.

“The infrastructure and the assets in the lab are already being monetised to create customer-centric solutions and we already have some references while some of the customer use cases are being tested,” Tech Mahindra Senior VP and Global Head of Manufacturing Aloke Palsikar said.

Co-innovation is one area where the company is making significant bet to develop solutions that are deeply aligned with the customer’s requirements, Tech Mahindra said. 
