20170307 
India vs Australia: After Virat Kohli, DRS bloopers trouble Aussies now 
7-3-2017 
The Decision Review System had left India anguishing in this series, but Australia, till now spot on with the technology-assisted review, saw the downside of it as they chased victory in the second Test at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium on Tuesday. (LIVE UPDATES)

A review lost and one not taken left Australia on a shaky 67 for three chasing 188 for victory on the fourth day of the Test. (SCORECARD)

Opener David Warner, key to the chase, was given out leg before against off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin, but ball hitting him low on the front pad as he shaped to sweep. After discussion with his batting partner, skipper Steven Smith, the visitors chose to review. (LIVE STREAMING)

But TV replays, and the ball-tracking technology, showed the ball would have clipped off-stump, which is the umpire’s call.

Read more | Josh Hazlewood’s career-best 6/67 breaks India’s fightback in Bangalore Test

Next up was Shaun Marsh, whose half-century in the first-innings gave Australia a crucial 87-run lead. He padded up to a Umesh Yadav delivery which jagged back and umpire Nigel Llong immediately upheld the appeal for leg before.

Oh dear... Australia opted not to review the Shaun Marsh dismissal #INDvAUS pic.twitter.com/tnuYtmC7vg — cricket.com.au (@CricketAus) March 7, 2017

Marsh had a long chat with Smith but Australia chose not to review as they had only one chance left. TV replays later showed the left-hander was struck outside off-stump and the ball would have clearly missed the stumps.

Read more | OPPO to replace STAR India as India cricket team sponsor

Indian skipper Virat Kohli had been under pressure after getting one review after another wrong, including his own dismissal in the second innings on Day 3 when it was not clear whether he got a bottom-edge before the ball hit the pads.

He won’t be complaining about the Aussie’s DRS dilemma.

Still, Australia were in with a fighting chance to clinch victory and go 2-0 up ahead of tea on the penultimate day. 
