20170307 
No respect? Virat Kohli points to Ian Healy’s Centurion Test behaviour 
7-3-2017 
India cricket team skipper Virat Kohli has come under fire from former Australia stalwarts following the first Test defeat in three days and a verbal clash between him and rival captain Steven Smith during the second Test in Bangalore. (HIGHLIGHTS)

Virat Kohli was twice dismissed shouldering arms, bowled by left-arm spinner Steve O’Keefe in Pune for 12 in the second innings, where India lost by 333 runs in three days. He was then trapped leg before by off-spinner Nathan Lyon for 15 in the first innings at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium. (SCORECARD)

Former Australia opening batsman, Matthew Hayden, doing TV commentary in the series, said the Aussies have managed to get into the head of the Indian skipper. Former batsman Mark Waugh, now a national selector, described Kohli’s dismissal in the first innings at Bangalore as ‘brain fade’, and a case of not showing the intent he wanted his players to.

READ | India vs Australia: Virat Kohli taunts Steve Smith’s ‘brain fade’ on DRS

But it was former wicketkeeper Ian Healy, who left Kohli upset, after saying that he ‘lost respect’ for Kohli for his clash with Smith.

On Tuesday, after India pulled off a sensational win with a day to spare and level the four-match series, Kohli hit back at Ian Healy.

[I’ll lose respect] in his eyes? We’ve got 1.2 billion people in India. One person doesn’t make a difference to my life. And also I think you should go and search on YouTube, when he was given out in Centurion, down the leg side. I heard he said something about me not having good behaviour with umpires – I think you all should YouTube that video and I think, yeah, that says it all. Just see that video and next time you ask me the same question.

READ | Virat Kohli the perfect ring-master as India clinch thrilling win vs Australia

The video of the incident during the 1997 Test, which South Africa won by eight wickets, shows an infuriated Healy, the Australia wicketkeeper, walking off after being given caught behind down the leg side, with ‘keeper Dave Richardson --- now the ICC CEO --- claiming the catch off the bowling of pace bowler Brett Shultz.

Healy points the bat like a gun at some spectator and then throws the bat as he walks up the stairs to the dressing room, yelling ‘bu.. sh.. umpiring’. The match saw controversial umpiring, but Healy was handed a two-match suspension for his behaviour. 
