20170307 
Indians lead way in fight H-1B visa holders’ right to work 
7-3-2017 
Sudarshana Sengupta, a biomedical researcher who has worked and published at Harvard and the University of Chicago, was about to launch a start-up on developing cancer immunotherapy strategies. But she has to first fight for the right to work in the United States.

She is one of the “intervenors” in a motion filed in a Washington court on Monday, calling for the protection of a rule which allows spouses of certain H-1B visa-holders to work, something the Donald Trump administration is expected to not defend in court.

Sengupta has an H-4 employment authorisation document, which is granted to spouses of H-1B visa holders waiting for their green card. The Obama administration introduced it in 2015, saying it would help attract and retain best talents from around the world to the US.

Almost immediately, Save Jobs USA, a group of IT workers who say they were displaced by H-1B visa-holders, challenged it in court, which threw out its lawsuit. Save Jobs USA did not give up — it challenged the ruling in a court of appeals, filing its first brief in January 2017, with an incoming administration known for its antipathy towards H-1B visas.

Read more

The justice department, soon to be headed by Jeff Sessions — an outspoken critic of the H-1B visa programme — filed a response on February 1, seeking time to “allow incoming leadership personnel adequate time to consider the issues”.

That’s when Immigration Voice, an advocacy group for Indians waiting for Green Card, decided it had to intervene. It filed the motion with Sengupta as one of the intervenors. “Immigration Voice could not simply wait until it was too late to see if the department of justice would defend the reasoned decision of the district court dismissing Save Jobs’ complaint,” said Aman Kapoor, a co-founder of the group.

“The recent statements from the government present an unacceptable risk for Immigration Voice members that the department of justice might decide after 60 days to adopt the position of Save Jobs USA.”

The Trump administration last week suspended premium processing of H-1B petitions — a fast lane for speedy clearance for a fee — and is widely speculated to be considering moves to restrict the temporary visa programme.

Trump and several members of his team, including Sessions, argue H-1Bs are being used by American companies to replace American workers with foreigners on lower wages, and have vowed to stop it.

And now, the H-4 appears to be danger. 
