20170307 
Tension in Haryana village forces Dalit families to migrate, CM sends minister 
7-3-2017 
The migration of Dalit families from a Haryana village due to tension in the wake of stone-pelting over ‘ghurchari’ ritual was raised in the assembly on Tuesday, following which the government said a minister and a lawmaker were sent to resolve the issue.

Accusing the opposition of politicising the issue of tension over ‘ghurchari’ ritual in a Haryana village, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday told the house that the minister of state for social justice and empowerment Krishan Kumar Bedi and legislator Bhagwan Dass Kabirpanthi have been sent to Sagga village in Karnal district.

Earlier, Congress legislator Kuldeep Sharma raised the issue of Dalits’ migration from the village.

An altercation took place between members of two communities on March 3-4 night, after a Dalit groom was allegedly stopped from ‘ghurchari’ by some upper caste youths in the village, which led to stone-pelting.

Khattar said his government was making efforts to normalise the situation in the village.

Tension prevailed in Sagga after a Dalit groom was allegedly stopped from the customary riding of a mare before his wedding.

“As per the information, villagers had decided to do away with ‘ghurchari pratha’ in the village. But when members of the Scheduled Castes community wanted to perform ‘ghurchari’, they were stopped by members of another community, which made the situation tens,” Khattar told the assmbly.

“However, the ‘ghurchari’ was performed in police presence, but it was opposed to by the members of the other community and they resorted to pelting of stones, which caused injuries to some police personnel and several others,” the chief minister added.

Police later registered a case under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.

“The government is trying to restore normalcy and resolve the issue. But in case it is not resolved, further action will be taken as per the FIR lodged in the case. The Karnal Deputy Commissioner had constituted a committee to resolve the issue,” he added. 
