20170308 
Women’s Day: Why just one day? It should be special every day, say top TV stars 
8-3-2017 
International Women’s Day means different things for different people - while some believe it is futile to celebrate just one day and not care for their emotions for the rest of the year, others believe the celebrations are important to remind women of their power and importance.

We reached out to TV actors in India to ask them what they think of this special day for them. Among all the comments, one thought all of them agreed on is this: That it’s time we treated women as equals and gave them the respect due to them.

Here are a few comments from our popular TV stars.

Priyal Gor



I feel really blessed because my parents have brought me up as an independent girl. I have been working since I was a 15-year-old girl, which has helped me a lot. Parents play a crucial role in making their daughters independent. However, our society still doesn’t respect women. Although our shows are women-centric, they do not necessarily educate men to respect women. Women of this generation are independent and proud of themselves but the men in our society still expect to be the head of the family. I don’t know if Women’s Day is actually helpful because the perception in regards to women has not changed much. A man will feel insecure if the woman is ahead of them whether it is in their careers or in monetary gains.

Aishwarya Sakhuja



The fact that we need to celebrate a day dedicated to women clearly shows that we are still not a society that champions equality. Why do we need Women’s Day? Why can’t we treat women as special all the time. The equality has to come every day. Every woman needs to understand that women empowerment comes from within themselves. We need to believe that we can do whatever we want and even exceed our own expectations. One needs to understand that it’s not about who is more powerful and no NGO can help you unless you want to help yourself. Even in the television industry we need to stop showing ‘saas – bahu’ drama where the highpoint of the show is if a female lead forgets to add sugar in the tea. We need to stop showing women so weak and stranded.

Shoma Anand



I feel it is important to celebrate Women’s Day because we need to feel proud and celebrate the day for our success. In India, women have carved an identity of their own, and contributing to the betterment of the society. Even in our industry there are so many shows that promote women empowerment. I wish every woman respects other women in her life and helps out a woman in need. Only then will we be truly empowered.

Aditi Sajwan



I feel Women’s Day is overrated. If we look at the current situation, we are still backward when it comes to women’s empowerment, women’s education or their rights. In our country, women are financially dependent on men. They need to stand on their own to get that respect for themselves. Secondly, our society is still to look at women and their clothes differently. We are still judged by the type of clothes we wear or how we behave, and then blame us for all the violence committed against us. In our industry, actresses are independent but it is not portrayed on screen. It is very important to make men understand that everyone is equal. Every woman needs to stand up for herself and keep her head high. I wish they strongly communicate and create uniqueness in their own space.

Niti Taylor



Today, many women match steps with their male counterparts. I support and raise my voice against violence against women in many ways. Our society must understand the needs of women as well.

Helly Shah



Women can do anything and everything. They just need to be brave, fearless and believe that they are equally powerful and capable of doing whatever they want to do. They can bring the change the world requires. We should be strong enough to take our decisions and take a stand for ourselves.

Tanya Sharma



Women’s Day should be celebrated all through the year. I wish we become more fearless and more independent. Cheers to all the lovely women, we are strong and we are just too awesome for this world.

Roop Durgapal



Our scriptures say, “Where Women are honoured, divinity blossoms there, and where women are dishonoured, all action no matter how noble remain unfruitful”. A woman completes the man and brings life on earth.For harmony and balance in a society, women need to be given equal status, respect and importance.

Mahika Sharma



A woman has the power to give life. If we don’t exist, flowers would have no meaning, the moon would not be important any more, and pearls would be worthless. Beauty, fragrance, emotions are from us. Without us life will be like rocks or deserts.

Parineeta Borthakur



We are three sisters. My mother always used to say that my father was immensely happy when we were born. We need more men like my dad in our society. Women need to teach their brothers, sons, husbands and the entire male community to respect women as they have come from one, and you will get your next generation from one.

Gulfam Khan



March 8 is generally celebrated as Women’s Day, but in all fairness the world is all about the feminine energy. Mother Earth, Jag Janini... whatever you call her, women rule the birth cycle, and that is the reason every day is as much a woman’s day as it is a man’s day.

Shalini Kapoor



A day for appreciating women’s contribution and celebrating it is very important. I am not a feminist. I never doubt or question a man’s contribution. But I believe we need to celebrate womanhood every day of the year. And yes, I do raise my voice against violence, not gender.

Follow @htshowbiz for more 
