20170308 
Here are the 10 news stories of the day to look out for 
8-3-2017 
From the last phase of assembly election to updates on anti-terror operation in Lucknow, watch out for the following news:

1. UP polls: BJP pins hopes on Modi magic as final round of voting begins today

The final round of voting in UP today will be another test of alliances that Narendra Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has stitched together to expand its social base in the state. Forty assembly seats in Poorvanchal, or east UP will vote in the seventh round of polling and the BJP, looking to make a comeback in the state after 15 years, is expecting a good show. “We will sweep the region,” union minister Santosh Gangwar told HT. “There is an overwhelming support for the BJP among all sections of the society.”

Read the full story here.

2. Irom Sharmila and Ibobi Singh face-off in Phase 2 of Manipur polls

The second phase of polling for the Manipur assembly will be held in 22 constituencies in the districts of Thoubal, Ukhrul, Chandel, Tamenglong and Senapati. This round decides the political future of human rights activist-turned-politician Irom Chanu Sharmila and chief minister O Ibobi Singh who are contesting the Thoubel constituency.

Read the full story here.

3. AAP government to table Delhi’s budget, focus expected on education and health

Arvind Kejriwal’s government in Delhi will present its third budget on Wednesday. As in previous years, the focus of the budget allocation is expected to remain on education and health. In his address on Monday, Governor Anil Baijal said the Delhi government started work on constructing 8,000 new classrooms and 20 new schools, of which 14 schools were completed. He said 100 mohalla clinics were established and that their number would increase to 1,000 clinics in six months.

4. Emergency UN Security Council meeting on North Korea

The UN Security Council will hold an emergency meeting on North Korea’s latest missile launches. The meeting was requested by the United States and Japan after Pyongyang launched at least four ballistic missiles, three of which fell in the sea close to Japan. UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres condemned the latest missile tests and urged Pyongyang to “refrain from further provocations.” The launches were the latest in a series of tests that violate UN resolutions barring Pyongyang from developing missile technology.

5. Mumbai’s mayor to be picked today

The next Mayor of Mumbai will be elected on March 8. With no indication yet of any post-poll alliance in the BMC it remains to be seen what strategies the political parties adopt for the mayor’s post. In the recently-held BMC polls, the Shiv Sena won 84 seats, BJP 82, Congress was relegated to the third spot with 31 seats, NCP got nine and Raj Thackerays MNS won seven seats.

6. Uphaar victims body moves Supreme Court about Sushil Ansal’s sentence

The Supreme Court will hear a plea by the Association of Victims of Uphaar Tragedy which seeks a modification of the court’s order that sentenced Sushil Ansal to the period that he has already spent in jail.

You may want to read:

7. Anti-terror operation ends in Lucknow, suspected ISIS inspired militant killed

A suspected militant’s body was recovered after an anti-terror operation that lasted nearly 12 hours on the outskirts of Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh, police said early on Wednesday. Uttar Pradesh anti terror squad (ATS) inspector general Aseem Arun said the militant was a member of the Indian module of the Islamic State group called Khorasan.

See the full story here.

8. Women’s Day: Stop the tokenism and think of lasting ways of empowering them

In 2017 Indian women are hardly empowered and lag far behind men on several crucial parameters including health, safety, and the most glaring of them all, economic participation. India has one of the worst gender gaps in the world when it comes to labour force participation. Education levels in both urban and rural areas are declining. There are two glaring reasons for the sorry figures. The first is the pressure on all women of all ages to get married. We as a society remain obsessed with marriage. The second reason for women’s low participation in the workforce is concern for their safety.

Read the full article here.

9. Dimple 2.0: Evolution of a bahu into a star campaigner

Dimple Yadav’s first scripted speech in Lok Sabha was such a disaster that it went viral on YouTube as ‘Dimple Yadav’s hilarious mistakes in Parliament’. But that’s history. The 2017 assembly election is Uttar Pradesh has seen Dimple emerge as the star campaigner of Samajwadi Party. She has also commanded more spotlight than many seasoned leaders across political parties.

Read the full story here.

10. WikiLeaks CIA Files: Is my smart TV spying on me? How worried should I be?

The publication by WikiLeaks of documents it says are from the CIA’s secret hacking program describe tools that can turn a world of increasingly networked, camera- and microphone-equipped devices into eavesdroppers. How worried should consumers be and can they prevent devices from communicating with spies?

Read the full article here. 
