20170308 
Islamic State-inspired suspect killed in Lucknow encounter: Photos of 12-hour operation by ATS 
8-3-2017 
Uttar Pradesh Police say they have killed an Islamic State-inspired man suspected of planning the bombing of a train that injured eight people in Madhya Pradesh.

Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terror Squad inspector general Aseem Arun said the militant was a member of the Indian module of the Islamic State (IS) terrorist group called Khorasan. The ATS engaged the suspect in a 12-hour gunbattle overnight on Tuesday after tracking him down at the home of a Muslim cleric on the outskirts of Lucknow.

A police officer identified the suspect as Saifullah, and said he was wanted in connection with Tuesday’s train blast near Bhopal.

Here are photos of the ATS operation and the building where the suspect was hiding:

The ATS reached the cleric’s house in a thickly populated locality on the outskirts of Lucknow around 2pm after specific inputs. (Deepak Gupta/HT Photo)

The commandos came under a volley of fire when they moved in, forcing the officers to use stakeout and stealth. (Deepak Gupta/HT Photo)

After a nine-hour sporadic gunfight, police said the suspect was wounded but still holed up in the house. (Deepak Gupta/HT Photo)

About 300 police personnel, including ATS commandos, were engaging the militant in Lucknow’s Kakori area. (Deepak Gupta/HT Photo)

Members of the press and others look on as an operation against a suspected Islamic State-inspired militant continues. (Deepak Gupta/HT Photo)

Police officers make a hole in a wall of the building where the suspect was hiding to send in optical fibre cameras. (Deepak Gupta/HT Photo)

Items seized from the building where the militant was holed up. (ATS handout)

Holes created by the Uttar Pradesh Police to send in optical fibre cameras into a building where they said an Islamic State-inspired militant was hiding. (ATS handout)

The body of the suspected militant being taken away by the police. (ATS handout)

A daily schedule found at the building where the suspected militant was hiding. (ATS handout)

A map of the Indian Railways found from the house where the suspected militant was holed up. (ATS handout) 
