20170308 
Mercedes hit-and-run: West Delhi businessman arrested for killing 17-year-old 
8-3-2017 
A West Delhi-based businessman was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly driving a Mercedes into a scooter, killing its 17-year-old rider on the spot in West Delhi’s Paschim Vihar on Sunday night, police said.

The accused, identified as Savneet Singh, was arrested by a crime branch team at around 3 am after a raid in Rajouri Garden, two days after the accident killed class 12 student Atul Arora on Sunday.

The silver colour Mercedes car which was allegedly involved in the hit-and-run accident has also been recovered, said Madhur Verma, deputy commissioner of police (crime).

The officer said Singh’s cousin was also in the car when the accident took place.

Singh, a resident of Meerabagh, had allegedly hidden the car after the accident and gone into hiding.

Police said the Mercedes is registered in the name of a resident of New Friends Colony and police are ascertaining the link between the owner and the driver.

Several front parts of the recovered car, including its logo, were found broken and missing, confirming its involvement in the accident. The Mercedes-Benz logo and few pieces of the broken front grille were recovered from the accident spot.

Read more

Police said they had gathered details about the car early on Tuesday but came to know about Singh’s whereabouts through a tip-off.

Whether Singh was drunk or not at the time of the accident may never be known because of the two-day gap between the accident and his arrest.

Medical examination conducted 24 hours after an accident could not be able to confirm if the driver was under the influence of alcohol when the vehicle hit Atul, who was returning home on a scooter.

Atul was the youngest of three children of a Delhi Development Agency (DDA) employee. He did not have a driving license and was not wearing a helmet.

Eyewitnesses told police that the vehicle was being driven at speed in excess of 100kmph.

The impact of the collision flung Atul several feet in the air and the Honda Activa was dragged for about 40 metres. The luxury sedan also went on to hit an auto-rickshaw and a truck before the driver fled, eyewitnesses said.

Atul, who was to turn 17 on April 18, lived with his parents and two sisters in GH-14 Block of Paschim Vihar.

Sunday’s incident is the latest among several fatal accidents involving high-end vehicles in the national capital region (NCR).

Read more

On Tuesday night, a 55-year-old man was hit by a speeding Mercedes car in south Delhi in yet another hit-and-run accident. The victim is battling for life at city hospital.

In January, an over speeding BMW had rammed into an Uber cab, killing its driver in South Delhi’s Munirka area. 
