20170308 
India vs Australia: Cricket Australia CEO terms cheating allegations as ‘outrageous’ 
8-3-2017 
Steve Smith looked to the dressing room during the second innings while consdering a review which drew ire from Virat Kohli. (Source: PTI) Steve Smith looked to the dressing room during the second innings while consdering a review which drew ire from Virat Kohli. (Source: PTI)

Cricket Australia CEO James Sutherland has come out and backed the skipper Steve Smith and the rest of the side in light of the allegations laid down by Virat Kohli in the post-match press conference of the second Test in Bangalore. Kohli had claimed that Australia used systematic tactics for reviews. “I saw the same thing twice when I was batting out there. I pointed it out to the umpire as well that it’s happened twice, and I have seen their players looking upstairs (to the dressing room) for confirmation. And that is why the umpire was acting when Smith turned back. The umpire knew exactly what was going on. We observed that (looking at dressing room), told match referee also and umpires that they have been doing this for last three days and this has to stop. It has to stop because there is a line that you don’t cross on the cricket field. Sledging is different. But I don’t want to mention the (particular) word but it falls in that bracket. I would never do something like that on the cricket field,” is what Virat Kohli said in the press conference.

In response to the allegations, Sutherland made a strong statement backing the captain and the team. “I find the allegations questioning the integrity of Steve Smith, the Australian Team and the dressing room, outrageous,” said Sutherland in a statement on Wednesday.

“Steve is an outstanding cricketer and person, and role to many aspiring cricketers and we have every faith that was no ill-intent in his actions.”

MUST READ | When Steve Smith’s attempt to cheat made Virat Kohli angry – everything you need to know

“We reject any commentary that suggests our integrity was brought into disrepute or what systematic unfair tactics are used, and stand by Steve and the Australian cricketers who are proudly representing our country,” he would go on to add.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd 
