20170308 
Bitter India complain to ICC on Australia’s ‘unfair’ DRS act in dramatic Bangalore Test 
8-3-2017 
The Indian team management has lodged a complaint with the ICC match referee Chris Broad over Australia skipper Steven Smith seeking help for a DRS review after his dismissal, sources said on Wednesday.

The ‘Dressing Room Review’ row raged on a day after India skipper Virat Kohli charged his counterpart with seeking help from the Australian dressing room to decide whether he should go for a review after being dismissed on the fourth day of the second Test at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium.

“A complaint has been sent to the match referee after the game. The team management has conveyed its views on the issue to the CoA (Committee of Administrators) and are waiting for its response,” the official told HT.

Read | India vs Australia: After Virat Kohli, DRS bloopers trouble Aussies now

DRS - Dressing room review system? Smith tries to get some suggestions from the dressing room for a review https://t.co/2V488WaKEp #INDvAUS — BCCI (@BCCI) March 7, 2017

Controversy erupted following India’s 75-run win over Australia to level the four-match series 1-1 on Tuesday. Australia skipper, who was asked by umpire Nigel Llong to leave the field as he stood with batting partner Peter Handscomb, admitted in the post-match press conference that he had indeed looked towards the dressing room.

Smith said he should not have done that, and called it a ‘brain fade’.

Read | Virat Kohli vs Steve Smith banter adds fuel to fiery India vs Australia Day 4

However, Virat Kohli said the Aussies had tried to take help from the dressing room twice when he was batting and that the umpire asking Smith to leave came after he had drawn the officials’ attention to the visiting side acting against the rules.

The Australia coach Darren Lehmann had denied the team was acting against the spirit of the game and Cricket Australia CEO, James Sutherland said Kohli’s charges were “outrageous”.

BCCI’s support

The BCCI came out in strong support of Kohli and requested the ICC to take note of Smith’s “brain fade” in seeking dressing room’s advice for a DRS referral in the second Test.

The BCCI’s reaction to the controversy came after Cricket Australia called the cheating allegations against Smith outrageous.

“The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) after due deliberation and seeing the video replays of the episode steadfastly stands with the Indian Cricket Team and its Captain Mr. Virat Kohli,” said the BCCI in a statement.

“Mr. Virat Kohli is a mature and seasoned cricketer and his conduct on the field has been exemplary. Mr. Kohli’s action was supported by ICC Elite Panel Umpire Mr. Nigel Llong who rushed in to dissuade Mr. Steve Smith from taking recourse to inappropriate assistance.”

The Board added that the ICC to step into the matter and is hoping the remainder of the two Tests is played in the right spirit.

“BCCI has requested the ICC to take cognizance of the fact that the Australian skipper Mr. Steve Smith in his press conference admitted to a ‘brain fade’ at that moment. BCCI sincerely hopes that the rest of the matches are played in the true spirit of cricket,” the statement added. 
