20170308 
Ford Foundation appoints Pradeep Nair as regional director for India, Nepal, and Sri Lanka 
8-3-2017 
The Ford Foundation on Wednesday appointed Pradeep Nair as regional director for its offices serving India, Nepal, and Sri Lanka.

A seasoned public and private sector leader, Nair brings deep regional expertise and more than 20 years of experience building partnerships among government, corporate, philanthropic, and civil society partners in the dynamic South Asia region.

As regional director, Nair will guide the foundation’s operations in New Delhi, serving three countries with a staff of more than 30. Following a period of renewal, he assumes leadership over a revised program focus that represents a fresh start for the foundation and its recently registered branch office. “I am delighted to welcome Pradeep to the Ford Foundation. His global experience and leadership, and his expertise in building partnerships in the region will be a great asset as our work in South Asia enters a new chapter,” said Darren Walker, president of the Ford Foundation. “Pradeep’s record of engaging, listening, and mobilizing meaningful efforts with governments, universities, nongovernmental organizations, and the private sector will be invaluable to our work to help address some of the region’s most important opportunities and challenges.”

Nair joins the Ford Foundation with an impressive record of guiding the growth and development of regional institutions. As India country director of the U.S.-based Institute for Sustainable Communities, he established the organization’s India office and was instrumental in forming strong relationships with the government of India, the private sector, and NGO communities across Asia.

Earlier, as director of President Bill Clinton’s Climate Initiative in India, Nair helped to grow the regional chapter of the global cities network, chaired by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg. He also helped to foster the first investments in clean energy by India’s large state governments, and advised national government agencies on key health and environmental policies. The success of this work was highlighted by President Clinton at the United Nations.

Nair has taught development project financing at business schools in India and mentored entrepreneurs in engineering colleges. He most recently served as program director of the U.S.-based Volcker Alliance, where he played a critical role in shaping the organization’s mission and drove partnerships with government to improve public sector effectiveness.

“South Asia is a region of extraordinary growth and opportunity,” Nair said. “I am honored to be joining the Ford Foundation and look forward to working with the great people and institutions of South Asia to continue the important work of advancing fairness, justice, and dignity, and to help realize the region’s full potential.”

Nair holds an MBA in finance from Karnataka University, an engineering degree in electronics from Bharathiar University, and has also studied filmmaking. He began his career with the management consulting firm Deloitte in Silicon Valley.

Nair will assume his new position at the end of March. He succeeds David Hulse, who since November 2015 has served as interim director while continuing his primary role of leading the foundation’s office in Jakarta, Indonesia. 
