20170308 
Geneva Motor Show: Range Rover Velar, Jaguar’s e-SUV I-Pace Concept unveiled 
8-3-2017 
Jaguar Land Rover on Wednesday unveiled its new Range Rover Velar and Jaguar I-Pace Concept at the Geneva International Motor Show.

The Tata Motors-owned company also displayed its ‘Project Hero’ -- a bespoke humanitarian version of the Land Rover Discovery.

“Today, we have unveiled two revolutionary new vehicles - the Range Rover Velar and the Jaguar I-Pace Concept. Both are true to our purpose: to create experiences our customers love for life,” JLR CEO Ralf Speth told reporters.

The Range Rover Velar and the Jaguar I-Pace Concept represent major innovations in their segments, sharing a compelling combination of iconic British design and creative engineering, the company said.

The Velar will be built exclusively in the UK using Jaguar Land Rover’s lightweight aluminium intensive architecture and powered by the latest ultra-clean UK-built Ingenium petrol and diesel engines.

Read more

The new Velar is positioned between the Range Rover Evoque and Range Rover Sport, the company added.

‘Project Hero’, which has been created by Jaguar Land Rover’s Special Vehicle Operations in partnership with the Austrian Red Cross, features innovative drone technology and will be trialled by emergency response teams over the next year.

The I-Pace, Jaguar’s first electric performance SUV Concept, has been engineered to deliver a brilliant package, long-distance range, fast charging times and performance.

The new Jaguar I-Pace Concept during the press day at the 87th Geneva International Motor Show in Geneva, Switzerland, Wednesday. (AP)

With plans in place to take Jaguar Land Rover’s three vehicle manufacturing plants in the UK close to their operating capacity, the I-PACE will be manufactured at Magna Steyr’s plant in Graz, Austria, the company said.

With more than 100 years’ of experience, Magna Steyr has extensive contract manufacturing expertise working with many car manufacturers globally, it added.

Read more

Project Hero, on the other hand, is an advanced communication vehicle created to support Jaguar Land Rover’s partnership with the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), the world’s largest humanitarian network.

Since 1954, Land Rover has supported the Red Cross and supplied 120 vehicles to the IFRC for deployment in all corners of the globe.

Project Hero is the first to be supplied with a roof-mounted drone which enhances the capability of the all-new Land Rover Discovery, the company said. 
