20170308 
Virat Kohli, Steve Smith will face no action for DRS row in Bangalore Test: ICC 
8-3-2017 
The International Cricket Council (ICC) on Wednesday has decided not to levy any charges against India captain Virat Kohli and Australia skipper Steve Smith after a major DRS controversy erupted, following the latter’s dismissal during the thrilling second Test in Bangalore on Tuesday.

Kohli accused Smith of looking up to the dressing room for a signal on whether to review his leg-before decision in the second innings.

In a statement, the ICC said: “The ICC has considered both incidents in the context of this match and concluded it will be taking no further action against either player.

ICC statement in relation to second Test between India and Australia https://t.co/prYgA0oAv4 #INDvAUS @icc — ICC Media (@ICCMediaComms) March 8, 2017

Read | India vs Australia: After Virat Kohli, DRS bloopers trouble Aussies now

“The ICC has confirmed that no charges have been laid against any player under the ICC Code of Conduct following the second Test match between India and Australia in Bengaluru.

“Specifically in relation to Steve Smith and Virat Kohli, the ICC has considered both incidents in the context of this match and concluded it will be taking no further action against either player.”

Read | Virat Kohli vs Steve Smith banter adds fuel to fiery India vs Australia Day 4

Kohli had hinted that Smith ‘cheated’ in attempting to take dressing room’s help in taking the DRS.

After Cricket Australia (CA) claimed Kohli’s comment as ‘outrageous’, the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s (BCCI) came out in support of the Indian skipper and also “requested the ICC to take cognizance of the fact that the Australian skipper Mr. Steve Smith in his press conference admitted to a ‘brain fade’ at that moment.”

Read | Virat Kohli’s DRS allegations against Steve Smith spark BCCI-CA face-off

ICC Chief Executive David Richardson said: “We have just witnessed a magnificent game of Test cricket where players from both teams gave their all and emotions were running high during and after the match.

“We would encourage both teams to focus their energies on the third Test in Ranchi next week. Ahead of that, the match referee will bring both Captains together to remind them of their responsibilities to the game.” 
