20170308 
‘Begin negotiations’: G4 nations, including India, urge UNSC to speed up reforms 
8-3-2017 
The G4 countries — India, Japan, Germany and Brazil — on Tuesday asked the United Nations to speed up security council reforms, saying, with ill-concealed frustration, they were willing to discuss anything, even old and rejected ideas, to advance the process.

The G4 nations are four countries which support each other’s bids for permanent seats on the United Nations security council.

Collate all options and place them on the table for all member states to “seriously begin negotiations”, said Indian permanent representative to the UN Syed Akbaruddin in a statement on behalf of the group.

Read: India, G4 nations retiterate ‘unwavering commitment’ to UNSC reforms

“It is time to get started,’ he added, reflecting the group’s combined frustration with a process that has moved with glacial pace. “For our credibility to be sustained, it is time for honest engagement and exchange on the basis of a text.”

The “text” is UN-speak for a formal proposal on paper that member countries can discuss, parse and reject in total or part, and will be a first major step in what has been a slow process and will likely to be one because of lack of unanimity.

India and the other three G4 countries are leading contenders for permanent membership of an expanded UNSC, the world body’s top decision making organ, that will be more representative of the world.

There are others who oppose expanding the permanent membership and have suggested other options, including membership with full veto power of the current permanent members.

Read: High time to reform UN Security Council: Ban Ki-moon

G-4 will not insist on veto for new members, the Indian representative said reiterating -- according to official sources on background -- an old position.

“While the new permanent members would as of principle have the same responsibilities and obligations, as current permanent members they will not exercise the veto until a decision has been taken during a review,” Akbaruddin said.

An Indian diplomat in Delhi said this was an old position, adding, “Basically our focus strategically was on moving the process ahead with a text; rest is all tactical.” 
