20170309 
Uber self-driving cars are coming back to California roads 
9-3-2017 
Uber doesn’t plan to pick up passengers for now. The California Department of Motor Vehicles said it has granted Uber permission to run two Volvo SUVs on public roads. (Source: AP) Uber doesn’t plan to pick up passengers for now. The California Department of Motor Vehicles said it has granted Uber permission to run two Volvo SUVs on public roads. (Source: AP)

Uber’s self-driving cars will return to California’s streets, though the ride-hailing company doesn’t immediately plan to pick up passengers.

Uber received a permit Wednesday to test two Volvo SUVs on public roads, the California Department of Motor Vehicles said. Regulators also approved 48 people as backup drivers who must sit behind the wheel in case the prototype cars malfunction, according to agency spokeswoman Jessica Gonzalez.

The permit resolves a conflict dating to December. That’s when Uber — an aggressive player in the self-driving race to bring the technology to the market — rolled out a pilot program of more than a dozen cars in San Francisco, its hometown.

Uber knew about the DMV’s requirement to receive permission before testing in public, but argued that its cars do not meet the state’s definition of an “autonomous vehicle” because they need a person to monitor them and intervene if needed. That argument raised eyebrows both among regulators and other companies with similar technology that did get permits.

Watch all our videos from Express Technology

The pilot program caught the state — and San Francisco city officials — off guard. Amid a several-days showdown, during which a few self-driving Uber SUVs did not stop for red lights, state prosecutors threatened to haul Uber before a judge if the service was not suspended immediately.

Uber responded by packing up its cars for Arizona, where it began picking up passengers last month.

Uber said in a statement Wednesday that it does not plan to ferry paying passengers for now, as it does in Pittsburgh and a Phoenix suburb. The company did not say when the two Volvos would be driving on California roads.

With the approval, Uber becomes the 26th company to have a self-driving car testing permit in California. 
