20170309 
Here are the news stories of the day to look out for 
9-3-2017 
From the budget session that resumes today to exit polls on assembly elections, here are the stories to look out for:

1) All eyes on exit polls for state elections

After the two-month long assembly elections process in five states, the political discussion on Thursday will centre on the results of the exit polls that will emerge this evening. The results of UP will be keenly watched, while the AAP and Congress would want to know of projections about Punjab. There was 73% polling in Punjab while Goa had a record-breaking 83% voter turnout.

2) Battle lines drawn, Parliament all set for a stormy start

The budget session of Parliament will resume on Thursday even as the political class waits with bated breath for the outcome of the five assembly elections. While the result of the Uttar Pradesh poll is likely to impact the fate of the session, Opposition parties are trying to leverage the recent civic body polls in Maharashtra and Odisha and the developments in Tamil Nadu to stitch together a larger unity against the BJP. The session is like to see a stormy start as home minister Rajnath Singh is scheduled to make a statement on the detection of an alleged ISIS module in UP.

Read the full story here.

3) CBSE Class 10 and 12 exams begin today

The board examinations for class X and XII students of Central Board of Secondary Education begin today. Some 8,86,506 candidates have registered for Class-X examination, 15.73% more than last year, while 10,98,981 students have enrolled for Class-XII exams, a 2.82% increase from the preceding year’s number.

4) South Korea court to begin trial of Samsung chief

Samsung’s de facto leader, Jay Y. Lee, is set to stand trial this week on charges of embezzlement and of bribing South Korea’s embattled president. Lee, 48, was formally charged last week with bribery in connection with a political-corruption scandal in South Korea that has already led to the impeachment and suspension of South Korean President Park Geun-hye. A decision on her presidency could come as early as this week.

5) Uphaar fire tragedy: SC to hear Gopal Ansal’s plea

The Supreme Court will hear the plea of real estate baron Gopal Ansal who is seeking an extension to surrender for serving the one-year jail term in 1997 Uphaar fire tragedy case. SC had ordered Gopal to surrender on March 9. Arguing that he does not want to undergo the remaining part of his one-year sentence, Gopal Ansal had moved the court seeking parity with elder brother Sushil Ansal, who was let off with the sentence he has already served.

You may also want to read:

6) Lucknow encounter: How two runaway friends turned terror suspects in two months

The heartbroken and angry father of suspected militant Saifullah, who was killed in a 13-hour standoff with security forces in Lucknow, refused to accept the body of his son who he said was a “traitor”. Saifullah, a graduate in commerce, had left home in anger two-and-a-half months ago. Before he left, Saifullah informed the family that he was going to New Delhi for a visa to Dubai, where he would look for a job. Around the same time, friend Atif Muzaffar was pressing his widowed mother to let him go and work in New Delhi.

Read the full story here.

7) UP election: How campaigning turned bitter with every phase of polling

Call it the demonetisation effect, the campaigning remained a low-key affair till it touched the third phase of elections. Thereafter, with every phase the tone grew shriller as campaigning reached its crescendo by the time it reached the last two phases that covered prime constituencies of leaders like Narendra Modi and Mulayam Singh Yadav.

Read the full story here.

8) Karnataka loses 715 sq km of green cover to forest fires

The onset of summer in Karnataka has spelt disaster for forests across the state, with about 715 square kilometres of green cover reported to have burnt down in fires since February. Bandipur National Park, home to nearly 120 tigers, is one of the worst affected. The prevailing drought condition has worsened the situation.

Read the full story here.

9) Apple, Samsung vow to fix flaws after CIA hacking report

Apple and Samsung vowed on Wednesday to quickly fix any vulnerabilities in their products following WikiLeaks’ disclosure of alleged CIA hacking techniques capable of breaking into iPhones and other devices.

Read the full story here.

10) Allow visiting captain to bat first, says Farokh Engineer in MAK Pataudi lecture

Former India wicket-keeper Farokh Engineer believes the debate on the quality of pitches could end if the visiting team skipper was given the option of batting first. Speaking of pitches in the India-Australia Test series Engineer said: “The Pune pitch was sub-standard. There is talk about having a neutral curator. I would say the visiting captain should be allowed to bat first.”

Read the full story here.

11) Five suicides in two months: CISF must focus on counselling and de-stressing

On January 5, a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) sub-inspector used his service revolver to commit suicide at a Delhi Metro station. On January 16, a CISF constable used his service rifle to commit suicide while on duty at the Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru. Personal problems constitute about 50% of the suicides witnessed in the force; the psychological stress on personnel is bad for the morale of the security force and if unchecked, a stressed out personnel could even be a threat to the public as well.

Read the full editorial here. 
