20170309 
Parliament Budget session live updates: Govt concerned about attacks on Indians in US 
9-3-2017 
PM Modi hoped that constructive debate would be allowed in the House by Opposition parties. (File Photo) PM Modi hoped that constructive debate would be allowed in the House by Opposition parties. (File Photo)

The second session of the Budget session, commencing Thursday, is set to witness stormy debates on a host of issues ranging from the violence in Ramjas to the attacks against Indians living in the United States. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, speaking to reporters outside Parliament today, hoped to see a breakthrough in the GST. He also hoped that constructive debate would be allowed in the House by Opposition parties.

Parliamentary Affairs Minister Ananth Kumar also appealed to the Opposition to allow the Parliament to function. He added that bills related to finance, appropriation, maternity will be among the ones to be taken up for discussion in the House.

Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh is expected to make a statement in the Parliament regarding the Lucknow encounter and the Ujjain-Bhopal train blast. A suspected Islamic State operative was shot down by the Uttar Pradesh Anti Terror Squad after nearly 12 hours of gun battle.

Parliament LIVE UPDATES:

11.19 pm: MPs from Tamil Nadu demand for discussion on Sri Lankan navy allegedly killing a fisherman off the state coast.

11.16 pm: Rajya Sabha adjourned till 11 am tomorrow.

11.13 pm: Opposition raise slogans inside Lok Sabha. Shout “we want justice” in unison.

11.10 pm: The government of India is very concerned about the killings in the US, says Ananth Kumar. Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh rises to make a statement on the issue as Opposition leaders voice protest.

11.07 pm: Question Hour begins. Opposition MPs appear to be demanding an adjournment of the session to discuss the US killings.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Lok Sabha, as the second leg of the budget session of Parliament begins pic.twitter.com/mjEWKza0aI — ANI (@ANI_news) March 9, 2017

11.03 pm: Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan pays tribute to former members of the Lok Sabha, including former speaker Rabi Ray, who passed away recently.

10.50 pm: TMC MPs protest in front of Gandhi statue at Parliament complex against attacks on Indians living in the US.

10.47 pm: Hoping to see breakthrough in GST, all states and parties have shown a positive approach: PM Modi. 
