20170309 
Salman Khan, Katrina Kaif to start shooting in freezing Austria for Tiger Zinda Hai 
9-3-2017 
Salman Khan and Katrina Kaif will begin filming a song and a few action sequences for their upcoming film Tiger Zinda Hai - the sequel to their 2012 hit film Ek Tha Tiger - with Hollywood action director Tom Sturthers in Austria from March 15.

Tiger Zinda Hai is slated for Christmas release this year.

Directed by Ali Abbas Zafar, the shoot for Tiger Zinda Hai will begin with a song in the freezing locales of Tyrol, Austria, known for its snow-capped mountains and small, quaint villages. The crew also plans to can a few action sequences during the schedule.

Read more

Hollywod action director Tom Sturthers, known for the stunts in Christopher Nolan’s Batman series (Batman Begins, The Dark Knight and the Dark Knight Rises), is working with Salman and Katrina for Tiger Zinda Hai.

“It will be very cold to shoot here, but Tyrol is both an unexplored and a stunningly beautiful location. We loved the challenge of shooting here. Tom Struthers will bring in a lot of value with his expertise. That Salman and Katrina agreed to shoot in this freezing cold place, where temperatures fall below minus twenty degrees, just goes on to prove how committed they are to the film,” a spokesperson for Yash Raj Film, the producer of the film, said.

Read more

Meanwhile, Paresh Rawal has joined the cast for a special role in the film. This is the first time ever that Rawal will be seen in a YRF film.

Commenting on Rawal’s involvement with the film, director Ali Abbas Zafar said in a press statement on Thursday, “I have always been a fan of his work and what he brings to his characters and I can’t wait to see him in this very special role, I am fortunate to be part of a film which is Paresh Rawal’s first for Yash Raj Films.”

Salman Khan and Katrina have worked together in Ek Tha Tiger, which centered on the life of an Indian spy of RAW (Salman), code-named Tiger, who falls in love with a Pakistani spy from ISI (Katrina) during an investigation and how Tiger’s ideology and principles change over time.

Follow @htshowbiz for more 
