20170309 
Woman software engineer strangled by live-in partner in Thane’s Badlapur 
9-3-2017 
Highlights Software engineer Punam Punyakar Gajbhiye strangled by live-in partner in Thane’s Badlapur city.

Vijay Sanjay Jharkad allegedly murdered her after she tried to end the relationship due to her family’s disapproval. The couple used to fight often.

Punam’s body was sent for post-mortem and then handed over to her family for last rites.

A 30-year-old software engineer was strangled to death by her live-in partner after they had a fight over the issue of their marriage in Badlapur of Maharashtra’s Thane district on Wednesday, police said on Thursday.

The engineer has been identified as Punam Punyakar Gajbhiye and belongs to Nashik. She was living in Badlapur since the past three years and worked with an IT firm at Kanjurmarg in Mumbai, police said.

Vijay Sanjay Jharkad strangled Punam with her scarf late on Wednesday after she told him that she will not be able to continue the relationship with him as her family members were against it.

After the incident, Jharkad locked the door and fled from the spot to his friend’s place. The 22-year-old met his friend in a nearby area and told him about the murder.

“Vijay’s friend alerted us and soon we rushed to the spot and in a few hours, we caught Vijay. He will be produced in court today (Thursday),” an officer at the Badlapur west police station said.

Punam met Jharkad, a mobile repairer in Badlapur, a few years ago and got into a live-in relationship with him.

“Both were staying in the same room which had been bought by Punam six months ago. They were staying together from the past two and a half years and it was after Punam’s family came to know about them they used to have arguments and fight every second day,” deputy commissioner of police (Zone 4) Sunil Bhardwaj said.

Punam, who earned well, took care of Jharkad and his daily expenses and had also invested in his mobile shop.

Bhardwaj added that Punam had divorced her husband three years ago and was living with Jharkad and initially her parents, who live in Mumbai, did not know about their relationship. But when they came to know about Jharkad, they objected to it and asked Punam to come to Mumbai.

“We have arrested the accused and he has confessed to the crime. Apart from that, he also confessed to having daily quarrels over their marriage,” investigation officer, M Polekar, said.

Punam’s body was sent to the Central Hospital for post-mortem and her family was alerted about the incident. Her body has been handed over to her family for final rights.

Jharkad was arrested under section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code. 
