20170309 
All England Badminton Live Score: PV Sindhu 11-5 Ayustine in the opening game 
9-3-2017 
Live Badminton Score, All England Badminton Championships: PV Sindhu takes the court first in Indian representation. (Source: AP File) Live Badminton Score, All England Badminton Championships: PV Sindhu takes the court first in Indian representation. (Source: AP File)

India’s representation at the All England Badminton Championships has been reduced to just three with everyone else bowing out in the opening round itself or in the qualifying rounds. There were exits for Ajay Jayaram and Kidambi Srikanth on Wednesday in the singles category while doubles department saw Meghana Jakkampudi/Ram Poorvisha (women’s doubles), Manu Attri/B. Sumeeth Reddy (men’s doubles) and Pranaav Jerry Chopra and N Sikki Reddy (mixed doubles) all crashing out.

With that, PV Sindhu, HS Prannoy and Saina Nehwal will carry the Indian flag into the second round forward at the Superseries Premier event in Birmingham. Catch live scores and updates as PV Sindhu, Saina Nehwal and HS Prannoy take court.

All England Badminton Championship Live Score and Updates:

1743 hrs IST: Sindhu moves forward and smashes a lobbed shuttle to lead 10-5. Neat drop by Sindhu and she leads 11-5 at the break in the opening game

1741 hrs IST: Ayustine sends her deep backhand attempt wide and Sindhu leads 5-4. Now the Indonesian with an error on the forehand to make it 6-4 to Sindhu. The Indian shuttler playing more attacking game now to move in on a low return. But she undoes the momentum to send a deep forehand long. Now a low shot by her has Ayustine stretching which is on to the net. Error on the serve by Ayustine and Sindhu leads 9-5.

1740 hrs IST: Sindhu steps up and changes the face of the racket at the last minute and it is now 3-3. Now Ayustine with an error and Sindhu is once again in the lead. Misjudgement by Sindhu and the shuttle lands in to make it 4-4

1739 hrs IST: Sindhu sends her low shot long and it is now 2-2.

1738 hrs IST: Ayustine gets the match going and PV Sindhu with strong two shots to start things. Attacking the Indonesian’s backhand. Sindhu has her knee taped as usual.

1737 hrs IST: Ayustine is World No 39 and started with a fairly comfortable start to the tournament in the first round.

1730 hrs IST: This is the first meeting between Sindhu and Indonesia’s Ayustine. They’re on the main court – Court 1. PV Sindhu in the front with the Indonesian walking right behind.

1720 hrs IST: Hello and Good Evening! We’re ready and in place for the second round of the All England Badminton Championship on Day 2 of the tournament. It wasn’t a good show for India on Wednesday. Only 3 wins with the rest of the pack bowing out. First on court is PV Sindhu who takes on Dinar Dyah Ayustine. In two hours time, as per schedule, Saina Nehwal will take court against Fabianne Deprez. Before Saina though, HS Prannoy will face a tough task of beating Houwei Tian.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd 
