20170309 
There are doubters and haters but I am answerable to no one, says Virat Kohli 
9-3-2017 
You just can’t ignore Virat Kohli. His bat speaks and that gives him the confidence to take on the world. Virat Kohli is quite a speaker, just like his cover drives, always confident and in complete control.

One got another glace of the fiery Indian cricket captain after Kohli was awarded the Polly Umrigar Trophy in Bangalore on Wednesday night for being India’s best international cricketer.

Virat Kohli may not be in great form in the current India versus Australia Test series, but he had grabbed the headlines with his trademark aggression and banter with the Australian captain Steve Smith. The Decision Review System controversy on Day 4 of the Bangalore Test on March 7 won Kohli both friends and haters.

In the current India vs Australia series, Virat Kohli’s average after four innings is a poor 10.00, his worst ever. Kohli has scored 0,13,12,15 in the series so far. It was the second time when he made less than 20 in four or more successive innings. His scores were 19,14 not out,19,7,6 against England in 2012-13.

#TeamIndia are here for the MAK Pataudi lecture and #BCCIawards #Naman pic.twitter.com/Ja04BTZCSe — BCCI (@BCCI) March 8, 2017

But Virat Kohli’s desire to win the world is clear. His intensity on the field may not please the critics, but that’s the way Virat Kohli plays his game and he will make no bones about it.

“I always wanted to be one of the top players in the world for sure. So I understood what it would take for me to maintain my form in all three formats. It is very important in transition phase to be available in all three formats and take the country forward,” Kohli said.

Virat Kohli also took a dig at his detractors and said he always believed in his abilities although there were many doubters around him.

VIDEO: @imVkohli receives the Polly Umrigar Award https://t.co/Y6lk34KCo6 #NAMAN #BCCIawards — BCCI (@BCCI) March 8, 2017

“All along in my career, there were many people who had doubted the way I have gone about my game. Even now there are doubters and haters all around, but one thing is for sure that I have always believed in myself,” he said.

“I always believed in my heart that if I work 120 per cent everyday in my life I am answerable to no one.” said Kohli, who became the first Indian cricketer to receive the Polly Umrigar award for the third time.

Hailing his teammates for their support and contribution in helping India reach the pinnacle of Test cricket, Kohli said the last 12 months have been a breakthrough year in his career.

VIDEO: Farokh Engineer delivers the 5th MAK Pataudi Memorial Lecture https://t.co/8uDJOA6K3x #NAMAN #BCCIawards — BCCI (@BCCI) March 8, 2017

“It is been quite unbelievable in the last 10 to 12 months. As cricketers you always have a breakthrough year for everyone. Starting late 2015 to the end of 2016, probably I could term is as the breakthrough year in my career.

“All the hard work, all the training on a daily basis, all the sacrifices, came together nicely. It could not have been possible without the help of the teammates throughout,” he said.

“At times you don’t do well but when the champion players in your side step up and everyone delivers what when you start producing results.”

Meanwhile, Australia captain Steve Smith and Virat Kohli have escaped any charges after a controversial Decision Review System (DRS) incident in this week’s Bangalore Test, the International Cricket Council (ICC) said on Wednesday.

Following India’s 75-run win in the second Test, Kohli accused Smith of ‘crossing the line’ and said the Australians repeatedly looked towards their dressing room for assistance over whether to ask for a review of the umpire’s decision using DRS.

Players are not allowed to seek direction on reviews apart from conferring with the non-striker. Teams cannot make more than two unsuccessful review requests per 80 overs. 
