20170309 
Rajnath says govt proud of Lucknow terror suspect Saifullah’s father, confirms NIA probe 
9-3-2017 
Union home minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday praised the father of a terror suspect killed in Lucknow, saying the government was proud of Mohammad Sartaj who refused to accept his son’s body for acting against “national interest”.

Lok Sabha members applauded Singh as he spoke about the father who said a person working “against this country is not my son”. Singh also confirmed the National Investigation Agency will probe the case.

Security forces gunned down 23-year-old Saifullah Khan early on Wednesday after a 13-hour standoff in Lucknow, as authorities suspected that he was an Islamic State operative with links to a minor blast in a train in Madhya Pradesh. Later, police clarified Saifullah was self-radicalised and had no contact with the West Asian terror group.

Read more

Talking to reporters, Sartaj said his son, who he termed a traitor, had left home around two and a half months back after being scolded for not working. Sartaj also refused to accept the body.

“The government is proud of him and I am sure Parliament too is,” Singh said of the father on the first day of the second half of the budget session.

Speaking on the incident in the Lok Sabha, Singh did not mention any Islamic State link to the case. He said so far six accused had been arrested in the train blast case --- from Pipariya in Madhya Pradesh, and Lucknow, Kanpur, Etawah and Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh.

Read more

Giving details of various cases registered in the two states after the blast that injured 10 people, he said the police arrested three suspects in Hoshangabad in Madhya Pradesh, following which the UP police acted in various parts of the state on tip-offs and held three more people.

“The above sequence of events presents an excellent example of coordination amongst state police and central agencies. Due to the prompt action taken by the police of both the state, a possible threat to national security was successfully averted.”

Singh also informed the lower house that eight pistols, 630 live cartridges, Rs 1.5 lakh, three mobiles phone, four sim cards, two wireless sets and some foreign currency were recovered from the place where Saifullah lived.

(With agency inputs) 
