20170309 
Geneva Motor Show: Lamborghini aims to sell 50 supercars a year in India by 2020 
9-3-2017 
Italian super sports carmaker Lamborghini is betting big on the Indian market and expects its sales in the country to double by 2020.

In order to popularise the brand, the company also plans to push sales of its licenced accessories and merchandise in India.

“India for us represents a market with a lot of returns and a very important market. Last year, it was a very good year there, “ Automobili Lamborghini CEO Stefano Domenicali said on the sidelines of the Geneva Motor show.

He said although the company has been present in India for around three years, it was able to sold 28 units last year.

“It is a growing market and we see potential. We can go easily to 40-50 cars a year very soon (with the upcoming SUV Urus), we can double our sales in India realistically by 2020,” Domenicali said.

Read more

Stating that the India market is in a consolidation phase, he said that “there will be a situation where we do believe that the peak of demand will not go down, there will be solid growth, and then it will be up to us to push more cars in the Indian market.”

When asked how soon can the company cross 100 units mark in India, he said: “Realistically speaking, I don’t see that happening in the next five years.”

The company sells a range of sports cars under its Huracan and Aventador families in India priced between Rs 3.07 crore and Rs 6.2 crore (ex-showroom Delhi).

Domenicali said the current cars in the company’s portfolio may have difficulties on the Indian roads due to low ground clearance but when the super SUV Urus is ready that will not even be a problem.

The company expects to start selling the production version of its concept SUV Lamborghini Urus from 2018 globally.

Reiterating that the company is already giving a lot of attention to India considering its potential, he said, “We have three dealers today. We are thinking of a fourth one very very soon.”

Location is still being finalised, he added.

Read more

Despite Lamborghini restricting its global production to maintain exclusivity, Domenicali said allocation would not be an issue if there were more demand coming from India.

“If it will be like that it will be up to us to stretch the number in different ways and different areas. But for me the value of our brand has to be exclusive,” he said.

The company limits the production to around 3,700 to 3, 800 units a year.

When asked if he sees any challenge in India in terms of policies and regulations, Domenicali said, “Conditions are quite stable and (he) does not sees any major challenges in India.”

In order to popularise the Lamborghini brand, he said the company is working to push its branded accessories and merchandise in India.

“We already have a line of products. We are working very hard to ensure the lifestyle of Lamborghini is perceived through not only cars but clothing and accessories in our collection. We are not there yet which we are going to to do very soon in India.”

Click for full coverage of Geneva Motor Show 
