20170309 
Hyderabadi Biryani fails to obtain GI tag as applicant unable to prove origin, data 
9-3-2017 
The famous Hyderabadi Biryani has failed to secure a Geographical Indications (GI) tag after its applicant could not prove the historical origin and data relating to this delectable dish, with supporting documents, according to the GI registry in Chennai.

The Deccani Biryani Makers Association had applied for the GI tag through its secretary Zubai Ahmed in 2009.

The fabled rice delicacy, which derives its name from this pearl city, has been part of the Hyderabadi cuisine for nearly 400 years. Coming from the kitchen of the Nizams, it is loved world over by food connoisseurs for its distinct spices, taste and aroma.

“The application for registration is treated as abandoned for want of prosecution, as they (applicant) have failed to prove the historical data and origin of the product with supporting documents,” the officials at the GI registry in Chennai, held in its order issued on January 27 this year.

Read: Indian food that crosses religions

From the records available with the GI registry, it found that there is a default in prosecution of the application within the time stipulated by the Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act 1999.

Hence, a show-cause hearing was fixed finally on January 23, 2017 granting an opportunity to the applicant to prove the details in the application.

Chinnaraja G Naidu, assistant registrar of Trade Marks & Geographical Indications Registry, said the registry had issued examination reports thrice over the past few years, with a direction to the applicant to produce the documentary evidence with respect to the historical data from the Gazetteer and proof of origin of the product (Biryani).

Read: Modi’s Gurgaon event: CM wants ‘Haryanvi biryani’ going places

“There was no reply from the applicant with regards to the examination reports. The applicant failed to turn up on the date of (many) hearings and there was no representation on the date of (these) hearings,” Naidu said.

“The applicant failed to prove the historical origin of the product with supporting documents and failed to make use of the opportunities provided during the show cause hearing to prove the historical origin,” the order said. 
