20170309 
BCCI withdraws complaint with ICC over Steve Smith, Peter Handscomb DRS issue 
9-3-2017 
The BCCI has withdrawn the complaint with the ICC over the DRS review taken by Australian skipper Steve Smith and Peter Handscomb in the Bangalore Test which India had won by 75 runs.

During the second innings of Australia’s chase in Bangalore, Smith had admitted to looking towards their dressing room for assistance over whether to ask for a review of the umpire’s decision, calling it a “brain fade”.

The compromise was reached after a meeting between the CEOs of the two Boards, BCCI’s Rahul Johri and CA’s Mr James Sutherland at the BCCI headquarters in Mumbai on Thursday.

In a joint press statement, by the BCCI and CA, they said: “The BCCI and CA have resolved to restore focus on the ongoing series amidst the increased attention towards issues which have emanated during the course of the 2nd Test match in Bangalore.”

“Subsequently, BCCI will withdraw the complaint filed with ICC with an expectation that the two captains will meet prior to the Ranchi Test and commit to lead their teams by example and play the rest of the series, in the right spirit, demonstrating that the players from both teams are true ambassadors for their respective countries.

Johri and Sutherland discussed the matters at length and agreed the importance of bringing back the focus to the game and the much anticipated next Test match in Ranchi.

Sutherland said: “ A series between India and Australia is bound to generate considerable excitement for fans in both the countries. On the field the two teams are fierce competitors who represent their countries with pride. As we have seen this week in Bangalore, with so much at stake, tensions can bubble over. We are half way through what has already been a riveting series - and there is still much to look forward to. In discussing the relevant issues in depth, we have agreed that it is in the best interests of the game to put these differences aside and clear the way for the focus to be on the cricket, and the remaining matches of the series.

Johri said: “India has always cherished a contest with Australia and over the years, the performances of both, the teams and the players, are testimony to the level of competitiveness that exists between these two teams. While having responded officially to one such incident which happened in the last Test, together, we believe that the focus of the teams and the joy they provide to the fans, should not be diluted and it is imperative to ensure that the rest of the series, which promises a great cricketing contest, not be compromised.”

It was learnt that the BCCI has been irked by Cricket Australia’s strong statement defending Smith.

A feeling within the BCCI was that while it was perfectly okay to defend their captain, the tenor of the statement seemed to demean Kohli, which has not gone down well with the home team. The Indian team management had expected that the match referee Chris Broad would summon Smith at the end of the game and was left perplexed following inaction on part of Broad.

Broad’s statement to an Australian media publication was also something that didn’t go unnoticed with the BCCI as match referees are not supposed to air their views in the media. 
