20170309 
30-year-old chops off husband’s private parts for ‘extra-marital affair’ 
9-3-2017 
Photo for representational purpose. Photo for representational purpose.

Angered by her husband’s alleged extra-marital affair, a 30-year-old resident of Khoda Colony in Ghaziabad allegedly chopped off his private parts on Thursday morning, police said. According to police, the couple hails from Bulandshahr district and they had been residing in Ghaziabad for around eight years. “Relations between them had been strained. The accused, in her statement, said that her husband was having an extra-marital affair,” said J P Dubey, SHO, Khoda Colony.

Watch What Else Is Making News

Police said the woman had used a kitchen knife for the assault. A case under IPC Section 326 — voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means — was registered at Khoda Colony police station.

The husband — a 40-year-old taxi operator — was rushed to Jaypee Hospital in Noida where he underwent a surgery for nearly five hours. “It took us nearly five hours to operate on him. A penile re-implantation has been carried out. Approximately, three-fourth of the penis was cut and it was necessary to repair arteries and veins and restore blood supply,” said Saurabh Gupta, Jaypee Hospital.

The police said that the incident took place after an argument between them. “The accused has told us that she was mentally tortured by her husband. On Thursday morning, he had come out of the bathroom when they had another fight. Following this, she attacked him with a kitchen knife,” Dubey said.

In a similar incident in Northwest Delhi’s Jahangirpuri, a 20-year-old man’s private parts were chopped off allegedly by transgenders.

The incident was reported on March 5 when the man had gone to the residence of the transgenders.

Based on the man’s complaint a case has been registered at Jahangirpuri Police Station under IPC sections 326 (Voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 328 (Causing hurt by means of poison).

Police said that they are yet to make any arrest as they are investigating if the man had agreed to have his private parts removed. 
