20170310 
Sensex, Nifty may open higher as exit polls show BJP closer to victory in UP 
10-3-2017 
Indian shares may open higher on Friday tracking global cues and as exit polls show the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party winning in the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections that will increase chances of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s second term at the Centre.

On Thursday, the 30-share benchmark Sensex closed 27 points higher or 0.1% up at 28929 while Nifty was up just 0.03% at 8,927 before the exit poll results for Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Manipur, Goa and Uttarakhand were out.

Investors may rejoice the exit polls as it indicates BJP’s strengthening its foothold in more states such as UP and Uttarakhand, and a continuation of economic reforms in the days to come. On Thursday, Modi expressed hopes the Parliament will pass the crucial CGST and IGST Bills required to roll out Goods and Services Tax possibly from July.

Chances of February CPI inflation inching up for the first time in seven months coupled with some revival in industrial growth, which lowers chances of RBI rate cuts immediately, will also weigh on sentiments.

Asian stocks rose while the dollar surged to six-week highs on expectation the Federal Reserve is sure to hike interest rates at its meeting in mid March.

MSCI’s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was up 0.1% in early trade following a firm Wall Street.

Nikkei was up 1% while Hang Seng gained 0.15% but Kospi was down 0.3%, Shanghai 0.1% and Strait Times flat.

The dollar firmed up to six-week highs against the yen ahead of US job data, which may raise chances of Fed rate hike on March 15.

The dollar was up 0.3% against the yen while the euro edged up against the greenback after European Central Bank president Mario Draghi said in a forward guidance that a reference to using all available measures to induce growth and inflation because the sense of urgency is not there. This indicates a rebound in the EU and a gradual unwinding of the easy money policy. 
