20170310 
Here are the news stories of the day to look out for 
10-3-2017 
From court verdict on 2012 violence at Maruti Sukuzi plant in Manesar to testing of BrahMos missile, here are some of the important news stories to watch out for:

1- Court verdict on Maruti plant violence

Section 144 has been imposed near the Maruti Suzuki plant in Manesar from today ahead of the court verdict on the violence at the automobile factory in 2012 where a general manager was burnt to death and several executives injured. The police arrested 147 workers in connection with the case and charged 145 in the case. The unions were planning to hold a meeting today and launch a protest if the decision was not in favour of the workers.

2- Arun Jaitley to chair high-level meet on bank NPAs today

Finance minister Arun Jaitley will chair a high-level meeting with Reserve Bank officials to address the issue of non-performing assets in the banking sector. The meeting, which will also be attended by financial services secretary Anjuly Chib Duggal, will discuss ways of resolution of stressed assets urgently, sources said.

3- Madras high court to examine video footage of TN Assembly trust vote

As directed by the Madras high court, the Tamil Nadu Assembly secretary will produce the video recording of the entire House proceedings on the day of the confidence vote which was adopted amid unruly scenes. The court gave the direction while issuing notice to assembly speaker P Dhanapal and chief minister K Palaniswami and others on a PIL by opposition DMK seeking to declare the confidence vote adopted on February 18 as null and void. The trust vote was won by Palaniswami by a 122-11 margin in the 234-member Assembly after the eviction of DMK MLAs and a walkout by its allies.

4- From 290 km to 450 km: Extended range of BrahMos missile to be tested

India is expected to test an extended range BrahMos supersonic cruise missile whose reach has been increased from 290 km to 450 km, the country’s top military scientist said this week. Defence Research and Development Organisation chief S Christopher said that the configuration of the existing missile has been tweaked to enhance its range.The missile is an Indo-Russian joint venture. Christopher said another version of the missile with a strike range of 800 km was under development. The missile could be tested in two-and-a-half years. BrahMos variants can be launched from land, air, sea and under water.

5- South Korea’s Constitutional Court upholds President Park Geun-hye’s impeachment

South Korea’s Constitutional Court upheld the impeachment of President Park Geun-hye on Friday, removing her from office over a graft scandal involving big business that has gripped the country for months. Park becomes South Korea’s first democratically elected leader to be forced from office. A presidential election will be held in 60 days, according to the constitution.

You may also want to read:

6- Rajasthan to rewrite history books: Maharana Pratap defeated Akbar in Haldighati

School students in Rajasthan will soon be taught that Rajput warrior Maharana Pratap defeated the decorated army of Mughal emperor Akbar in the Battle of Haldighati some 450 years ago. Most academics scoff at this idea because historical evidence shows that Pratap, the ruler of the erstwhile Mewar region, fled the battlefield, although in the later years he continued his guerilla war against the Mughals.

Read the full story here.

7- I-T notice to 550 people for depositing over Rs 15 lakh, post demonetisation

The Income Tax has served notices to 550 account holders in Himachal Pradesh for depositing over Rs 15 lakh in the banks, post demonetisation, a senior official said on Thursday. “These depositors would have to disclose their source of income and in case they fail to do so, the money would be treated as ‘black money’”, said the state’s chief commissioner of income tax. Chief Commissioner, Income Tax (Himachal Pradesh), Preetam Singh said.

Read the full story here.

8- Delhi ATM dispenses fake Rs 2,000 note, second case in one month

A south-east Delhi resident has alleged that he got a fake Rs2,000 note while withdrawing money from an ATM in south Delhi’s Amar Colony. The police registered an FIR and are probing the allegations. Last month, police received a similar complaint from Sangam Vihar after which a 27-year-old cash loader was arrested.

Read the full story here.

9- From Kejriwal’s homestay to hurled shoes: 5 controversies that dogged the Punjab elections

Ahead of the assembly election results on March 11, HT looks at five controversies that emerged from poll-bound Punjab during the campaigning.

Read the full story here.

10- Kansas shooting: Accused shooter who fired at Indian techies appears in court

The Kansas man accused of killing an Indian software engineer and shooting two other people while shouting “get out of my country” appeared in Johnson County Circuit Court on Thursday as lawyers worked out a schedule for his upcoming trial. Adam Purinton, 51, is charged with first-degree murder in the shooting death of Srinivas Kuchibhotla, 32. He is also charged with two counts of attempted murder.

Read the story here. 
