20170310 
Swift, Racemo and 5 other cars from Geneva Motor Show coming to India this year 
10-3-2017 
As all the launches and global premieres at the Geneva Motor Show come to a close, we now know all about what the biggest auto expo in the world has in store for the world and for India.

Slated to be the third biggest car industry by 2019, India is not only selling cars on a mass level, but also making them “bigly”. Automakers also see a huge potential in the country, and not just because it’s an alternative to China.

These are the cars unveiled at the Geneva International Motor Show that are slated to come to India.

Skoda Kodiaq

Skoda is going big this time in India; its new Kodiaq will be Europe’s answer to the Fortuners of Japan and Endeavours of America which are ruling the large SUV segment in India.

Unveiled at the Berlin Auto Show last September, the world premiere of Kodiaq, one of the most awaited cars for India, took place in Geneva on Wednesday.

Skoda Kodiaq Scout car is seen during the 87th International Motor Show at Palexpo in Geneva on Wednesday. (Reuters )

The Kodiaq’s India-bound version is likely to get two petrol mills -- 1.4 TSI generating 150hp and 2.0 TSI generating 180hp, and a 2.0 TDI diesel mill tuned at two power levels of 150hp and 190hp.

Mated to a 7-speed DSG automatic gearbox, Kodiaq will feature an Eco, Comfort, Normal, Sport, Individual and Snow modes which will give more control and confidence to the driver.

Range Rover Velar

Tata Motors-owned British luxury brand Range Rover has placed Velar between the Range Rover Evoque and Range Rover Sport. To be built exclusively in the UK using Jaguar Land Rover’s lightweight aluminium intensive architecture, Velar will be powered by 2.0-litre and 3.0-litre Ingenium petrol and diesel engines each, mated to an 8-speed automatic gearbox.

New Land Rover Range Rover Velar at the 87th Geneva International Motor Show in Geneva (AP)

Velar could come to India as a completely built-unit, which means the price could go north of Rs 40 lakh.

Tamo Racemo

In the words of the Tata Motors boss Guenter Butschek, Tamo is an “emotional, unexpected leap” into the future. With the launch of the sportscar Racemo, Tamo has unleashed its plans – as wild as the car.

N Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Sons and Guenter Butschek, CEO and MD of Tata Motors pose with TAMO Racemo at the 87th Geneva International Motor Show in Switzerland on Tuesday. (PTI)

Tamo Racemo will be powered by a rear-mounted 1.2 litre Revotron petrol engine delivering 190PS power @ 6500rpm and 210Nm torque @ 2500rpm and Tata Motors plans to bring it to Indian roads in the coming fiscal.

Read more

Volvo XC60

Must say, Volvo got some good sleep before they sat to redesign their latest generation of cars. The 2018 edition of the successful global crossover XC60 is expected to come to India later this year and will take on the likes of the Audi Q5, BMW X3, Mercedes GLC, and Porsche Macan.

The new Volvo XC60 car is seen during the 87th International Motor Show at Palexpo in Geneva, Switzerland. (Reuters)

Cues from XC90 for design and interiors are noticeable. Under the hood are a lot of engineering options: A T8 Twin Engine plug-in hybrid engine churns out 401 bhp, and can clock 100 kph from none in just 5.3 seconds.

Diesel options include a D4 mill of 187 bhp and a D5 mill of 231 bhp, while petrols include a T5 delivering 250 bhp and a T6 roaring out 315 bhp of power.

Tata Nexon

Well, a Tata car in this list is a given. Besides the grand Tamo Racemo launch, Tata Motors also drove in special Geneva editions of the upcoming Tiago-based compact sedan / fastback called Tigor, and the crossover Nexon. Tata Motors had displayed both concept models at the Delhi Auto Expo last year.

A Tata Nexon Geneva Edition car is seen during the 87th International Motor Show at Palexpo in Geneva, Switzerland. (Reuters )

While Tigor comes to the market by the end of this month or as the next starts, expect Nexon to come as the festive season kicks in.

Like the design cues, the mechanicals of the Tigor and Nexon may be borrowed from the Tiago.

Read more

Jeep Compass

In September last year, when Jeep, the original American brand, entered the country, it had revealed plans to make Jeeps in India. Jeep has invested $280 million in its Ranjangaon plant near Pune; and we will see an affordable Jeep Compass coming to India by 2017 end or early 2018.

A Jeep Compass at the 87th International Motor Show at Palexpo in Geneva (Reuters)

Jeep presently sells the Grand Cherokee and the Wrangler as completely built units, which is why they start at Rs 56 lakh. Expect the locally-made Jeep Compass to start around Rs 25-30 lakh, if Fiat Chrysler aims to succeed in India.

Suzuki Swift

The most awaited car for Indians at the Geneva International Motor Show. Maruti Suzuki has said it will bring two facelifts this year –the S-Cross and the Swift. Already a success since its launch in Japan, the third generation of the Swift will come to India before the festive season, market experts predict. (See more pics here)

New Maruti Suzuki Swift is the most awaited small car in India from Geneva. (Suzuki website)

Besides the generational upgrades like touchscreen infotainment and compatibility with smartphones, the tweaked Swift will get some mechanical upgrades too, for more power and fun. Will it get an RS version like the Baleno did? Fingers crossed.

Read more

Apart from these, Hyundai is expected to bring to India its luxury hybrid and electric car brand Ioniq and its South Korean subsidiary Kia may launch a small car Picanto.

Full coverage of Geneva Motor Show here 
