20170310 
Did India suffer brain fade in letting Aussies off in Dressing Room Review case? 
10-3-2017 
In what seemed to be an apparent bid to ease out the tension building up between India and Australia, the BCCI withdrew its complaint against the DRS fiasco on Thursday night. And not for the first time in the series, the visitors would be a relieved lot.

After all, while captain Virat Kohli stopped short of calling Steve Smith a ‘cheat’, it was for everyone to see the manner in which the Australian skipper took a stroll down the pitch, had a chat with Peter Handscomb at the other end, and looked back at the dressing room after being trapped in front by Umesh Yadav in the second innings in Bangalore.

Why this ‘brain fade’

However, ‘cheating’ is probably too harsh a word and so ‘brain fade’. Two words, that allow one to admit having done something wrong, yet shrug off the responsibility that comes along with it.

What Smith did wasn’t accidental, or so it seemed as two people can’t have their brains fading at the same time, nor did it happen in an unintentional manner.

India, perhaps, shouldn’t have let gone of this opportunity. While the Australian media and their former cricketers have made mountains out of mole-hills in the past, the hosts, too, should have perhaps gone ahead and given them a taste of their own medicine.

From Monkey-gate to Lolly-gate to trying every possible trick in the bag to unnerve visitors back home, the Baggy Greens have hardly been at the receiving end abroad.

Pretty strong stuff from Virat Kohli... #INDvAUS pic.twitter.com/rxkk9mCxUs — cricket.com.au (@CricketAus) March 8, 2017

ICC rule ignored?

The ICC rule states: The captain may consult with the bowler and other fielders or the two batsmen may consult with each other prior to deciding whether to request a Review.

Virat Kohli adds more spice to already fiery series with extraordinary press conference after tense win: https://t.co/8CpRCdbKHt #INDvAUS pic.twitter.com/fqUEhmRDsL — cricket.com.au (@CricketAus) March 7, 2017

Under no circumstances is any player permitted to query an umpire about any aspect of a decision before deciding on whether or not to request a Player Review.

If the umpires believe that the captain or batsman has received direct or indirect input emanating other than from the players on the field, then they may at their discretion decline the request for a Player Review.

Boards make peace as BCCI withdraws complaint https://t.co/jI87gCHdDB pic.twitter.com/5ewwU6XRHX — cricket.com.au (@CricketAus) March 9, 2017

In particular, signals from the dressing room must not be given.

All that now stands ignored.

Outrageous CA act

Cricket Australia not only backed Smith, but called Virat Kohli’s charges, who told the media that this wasn’t the first time he saw his counterpart look towards the dressing room for advice, ‘outrageous’.

Steve Smith spoke after play in Bengaluru: https://t.co/r96jJeAPfy #INDvAUS — cricket.com.au Video (@CricketVideo) March 7, 2017

It’s funny how former Australian cricketers Brett Lee and Michael Clarke, who were commentating at the time of the incident, knew the rules and captain Smith leading the world’s No 2 side simply forgot.

Clarke later told India Today: “If it is only a one-off, I don’t think that would have happened. The fact that Peter Handscomb is even thinking about telling the Australian captain to turn around and look to the support staff, I’ve got my concerns.”

Butter fingers

And yet, BCCI let the opportunity go. It might not have borne fruit at the end of the day but at least it would have been interesting to see how the Australians react on being treated in a manner in which they have often treated their visiting teams.

On the contrary, had an Indian cricketer done this, he could be assured of having nightmares from the Australian media throughout his career and an unending list of probes requested by the CA to the ICC.

But then, the BCCI of late seems in more of a resigned mode when it deals with the ICC.

Remember how quietly the officials representing the BCCI at the ICC came back from Dubai after pretty much accepting the new revenue sharing model? 
