20170310 
India launches inquiry into death of Nepalese man in border clash 
10-3-2017 
India on Friday launched an inquiry into the death of a Nepalese citizen during a clash along the border after Kathmandu said the man had been killed in firing by Indian security forces.

Local residents said Govinda Gautam, 20, of Kanchanpur district in southwestern Nepal, was hit by shots allegedly fired by Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) personnel on Thursday after a dispute over the construction of a culvert on Sano Khola river by Nepalese authorities.

Indian officials said 36 people, including nine SSB personnel, were injured when Nepalese citizens pelted stones at them. Movement across the border was suspended after the incident.

Gautam’s death resulted in tension in Kanchanpur and hundreds of people demonstrated outside the hospital where his body was kept. Armed police contingents were deployed by Nepalese authorities to control the situation.

After Nepal’s foreign ministry condemned the “killing of an innocent Nepali national…due to fire opened by the Indian security forces”, India’s external affairs ministry said the SSB had launched an inquiry.

Earlier, the Indian embassy in Kathmandu had denied any firing by SSB personnel.

“The government of Nepal is being requested through diplomatic channels to share post-mortem and forensic reports to facilitate the process,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Gopal Baglay said.

Local officials from the two sides held a meeting and “agreed to maintain peace and order”, he said.

Nepal’s foreign ministry asked India to investigate and “bring the guilty to justice”. It also sought steps to bring the situation under control so that “no further untoward incident takes place”.

Culvert being built in undemarcated section of border

Indian officials the Nepalese side had started constructing the culvert in an area near border pillar number 200, the status of which is yet to be decided. The dispute began after pillar number 200 went missing some time ago, and the culvert is located in an area claimed by India.

Residents on the Nepalese side the situation became tense on Thursday after SSB personnel, accompanied by people from the Indian border town of Basahi, allegedly fired in the air.

But Lakhimpur Kheri district magistrate Akash Deep said when he had gone to the border to discuss the matter with his Nepalese counterparts, “thousands of Nepali citizens entered Indian territory and set up a Nepal flag”.

He said “border forces had to use teargas to disperse them” and denied that any shots were fired. He added, “The flag has been seized and the matter has been reported to government.”

SSB commandant Dilbag Singh said: “SSB jawans on duty objected to (the construction)…Following this, Nepalese people gathered there and pelted stones, resulting in injuries to seven SSB jawans and some civilians.”

Indian and Nepalese officials agreed after consultations that status quo would be maintained till survey teams of both countries finalise the border.

A six-member team comprising officials from both sides will monitor developments and take steps to ease tensions.

The SSB, which is under India’s home ministry, is responsible for guarding the border with Nepal.

(With inputs from Chandan Kumar and Deokant Pandey) 
