20170310 
Tata Motors signs pact with Volkswagen, Skoda; to launch products from 2019 
10-3-2017 
Tata Motors on Friday announced entering a long-term partnership with Volkswagen Group and Skoda for joint development of products to be rolled out starting 2019.

A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed by Guenter Butschek, CEO and MD of Tata Motors, Matthias Mueller, CEO of Volkswagen AG and Bernhard Maier, CEO of Skoda Auto.

According to a Tata Motors statement, “Skoda Auto will take the lead on behalf of the Volkswagen Group to drive forward work towards development of vehicle concepts in the economy segment”.

Tata Motors’ Guenter Butschek said: “We strongly believe that both the companies, by working together, can leverage from each other’s strengths to create synergies and develop smart innovative solutions for the Indian and overseas market.

“This is in alignment with Tata Motors’ efforts to make itself ‘FutuReady’ by embracing new technologies, fostering higher platform efficiency and offering solutions that connect with the aspirations of our customers,” Butschek said in a statement.

Volkswagen AG CEO Matthias Müller said: “By offering the appropriate products, we intend to achieve sustainable and profitable growth in very different parts of the world. That is why we are systematically pursuing our regional growth strategy.”

“We are looking forward to the joint project with Tata Motors. Delegating project responsibility to ŠKODA underscores the great confidence of the Volkswagen Group in the ability of our brand. Together with Tata we will be specifying the concrete opportunities for collaboration over the coming months”, Bernhard Maier, CEO of ŠKODA Auto, stated.

The statement said the Tata Motors and Skoda will work out the terms of cooperation “in the next few months” and will launch products in the Indian market, starting calendar year 2019.

A win-win alliance?

Tata Motors’ passenger vehicles segment has fallen for the past four years. The carmaker reported 96% drop in its Q3 profit, and its market share has dropped from 13% in 2013 to around 5% in 2016.

The carmaker’s claim to global fame is the “one-lakh-rupee” Tata Nano but economical models haven’t been engineering success for the carmaker. With better engineered cars from emerging rivals like Renault Nissan in the same prices, Tata has fallen back in the game it excelled.

So Tata Motors needs Volkswagen to learn the German know-how of making better cars and implementing it cost-effectively.

On the other hand, Tata Motors has a strong sales and manufacturing network across the country, something Volkswagen and Skoda have struggled to grow in the need of a good product. With Tata, the German automakers might have found just that right partner needed to reach that extra mile.

Volkswagen Group’s cheating in the emissions tests that affected almost 11 million vehicles globally, across its brands such as VW, Audi, Skoda and Porsche, has also caused a dent to its brand image.Besides, penalties and damages to be paid are also huge.

Tata Motors is also undergoing a major transformation in its home. Its Project Tamo and the latest launch of a sports car Racemo in Geneva Motor Show has created quite a buzz. Inside, the company is cutting down its number of suppliers and reducing the number of platforms from six to two. These two platforms would be used to make mini-cars, hatchbacks, sedans, SUVs and crossovers, in order for more economical and efficient production so as to adjust more quickly to market trends.

“The strategy is to have 80-90% commonality” among all models made at Tata, the company boss Butschek said at the Geneva Motor Show. 
