20170310 
‘Children Bank of India’: Now, ICICI ATM gives fake Rs 2,000 notes in Delhi 
10-3-2017 
A fake Rs 2,000 note of ‘Children Bank of India’ has resurfaced in Delhi. A southeast Delhi resident alleged that he got one such note while withdrawing money from an ATM in south Delhi on March 7.

The police have registered a case of forgery and the crime branch is now investigating how a fake note made it to the ICICI bank ATM in Amar Colony. ICICI Bank refused to comment in the matter saying that they are cooperating with the police in the matter.

Joint CP (Crime) Praveen Ranjan confirmed the case has been transferred to his unit. Unlike the local police, the crime branch has the expertise to deal with such cases. The fake note has been seized. This is the second such case in a month.

Spot the difference 1. Bharatiya Manoranjan Bank instead of Bharatiya Reserve Bank

Bharatiya Manoranjan Bank instead of Bharatiya Reserve Bank 2. Serial number 000000

Serial number 000000 3. Rupee sign missing

Rupee sign missing 4. Churan Lable instead of strip with leaf markings

Churan Lable instead of strip with leaf markings 5. P.K. logo instead of RBI seal

P.K. logo instead of RBI seal 6. I promise to pay the barer two thousand coupens (sic) instead of I promise to pay the bearer the sum of two thousand rupees

I promise to pay the barer two thousand coupens (sic) instead of I promise to pay the bearer the sum of two thousand rupees 7. Governor’s signature missing

Governor’s signature missing 8. Churan Lable instead of the Ashok emblem

Churan Lable instead of the Ashok emblem 9. Children Bank of India instead of Reserve Bank of India

Children Bank of India instead of Reserve Bank of India 10. Guaranteed by the Children Government instead of Gauranteed by the Central Government

“Evidence gathered from CCTV footage and a text message from the bank, suggests that Rai had withdrawn the note from the ATM. We are questioning bank authorities and the loader who put the cash in the machine that day,” Ranjan said.

In his statement to the police, Rai had mentioned that he holds an account with Bank of Baroda and had withdrawn Rs 2,000 on that day. In February this year, police received a similar complaint from a State Bank of India ATM in Sangam Vihar after which a 27-year-old cash loader was arrested. The man had allegedly removed five Rs 2,000 notes and replaced them with fake notes that read ‘Children Bank of India’ instead of ‘Reserve Bank of India’ and had other errors and misprints.

In the latest case, Chandan Rai, a Nehru Nagar resident, was duped on Tuesday with a similar note after which he informed the police. “The note was fake with Children’s Bank of India printed on it. I received a message on my phone that Rs 2,000 was debited from my account,” said Rai in his complaint.

Police, however, said there is no connection between the two cases. The fake note, which bears the colour of a genuine Rs 2,000 note, reads,”…guaranteed by the children government... I promise to pay the barer two thousand coupons.”

The earlier fake note had ‘Churan Lable’ printed on the note in place of the national emblem in the bottom right corner, and the strip with leaf markings in the bottom left corner.

Such fake notes, police said, are offered with churan (digestive powder) in rural pockets of Delhi’s bordering areas. Before the government banned Rs 1,000 notes on November 8, a copy of Rs 1,000 note was offered with churan packets. They are common and mostly bought by children. 
