20170310 
Teen’s killing in encounter: Kashmir shuts down after separatists’ call 
10-3-2017 
Kashmir shut down on Friday, following a call by the Valley’s joint separatist leadership against the killing of a civilian during an encounter a day earlier, disrupting normal life.

Shops, business establishments and educational institutions were closed and the streets remained deserted.

On Friday, hardliner Hurriyat chief Syed Ali Geelani, moderate Hurriyat chief Mirwaiz Umar Farooq and chairman of the Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front Yasin Malik had given call for a complete shutdown and after-prayer protests on Friday in the wake of Pulwama encounter.

Teenager Amir Nazir was hit by a stray bullet near the encounter site, according to the police. Another civilian was brought dead to the hospital after clashes between security forces and protesters but according to the police, he had no pellet or bullet injury and an inquest has been ordered into the death.

A security personnel stands guard at a closed market during restrictions imposed to maintain law and order following a strike call by joint Hurriyat leadership against the killing of civilians during an encounter, in Srinagar on Friday. (PTI Photo)

Congregational prayers were not held in Srinagar’s Jamia Masjid. Mirwaiz Umar was put under house arrest on Friday morning, while Geelani continued to be under house arrest. Mirwaiz tweeted, “Placed under house arrest today, #JamaMasjid under police siege as the shameless ruling regime disallows mandatory Friday Prayers yet again!”

However, a police spokesperson said, “There were no restrictions in any part of the Kashmir valley, including Srinagar city.”

In Bandipora, hundreds offered funeral prayers for local Hizb-ul Mujahideen militant Mushtaq Ahmed, who was killed on Thursday evening in an encounter.

Train service from Srinagar to Banihal remained suspended for the second consecutive day on Friday due to security reasons.

Read more

Meanwhile, the Srinagar-Jammu national highway remained closed for traffic for the third consecutive day as snowfall and rains lashed parts of Kashmir on Friday.

In Srinagar, there was slight snowfall overnight and intermittent rains throughout the day. 
