20170310 
Kerala: Two more arrested in connection with rape, murder of 2 minor sisters 
10-3-2017 
Police on Friday arrested 2 more people in connection with the alleged rape and murder of 2 minor sisters in Kerala where a series of sexual assaults, including one that involved a priest and 7 minor girls in an orphanage, have been reported earlier this month.

The body of the 9-year-old was found hanging from the ceiling of her single room house on March 4 by her parents - both construction workers - after they returned from work in Palakkad district. Medical examinations later confirmed she was sexually assaulted before being killed.

Their elder daughter was also found dead in a similar manner at the same spot about two months ago. The mother said the younger daughter was aware of her sister’s murder and she was also done away in a similar manner fearing that she might spill beans.

She said once she had confronted the girl’s cousin for sexually assaulting her 14-year-old elder daughter and later complained to the police who she said brushed it aside as a suicide.

“If the police had acted promptly, my second daughter could have been spared. But nobody took us seriously,” the distraught mother said.

The two, including the girls’ cousin, were arrested only after the mother’s revelations. Two persons were earlier arrested on March5, a day after the second murder was arrested.

The embarrassed government had earlier suspended the station house officer of Walayar and ordered an inquiry against two others. It has also constituted a special investigation team to probe the twin-murder case.

The issue also figured prominently in the Kerala assembly with the opposition accusing the government of poor law and order situation in the state.

“It is shocking that police were protecting criminals rather than victims. All officials who failed to act on the first complaint of the distraught mother should be dealt with heavily. It should not happen to any other mother,” former chief minister VS Achuthanandan said after visiting the girls’ family. 
