20170311 
Donald Trump fires Indian-American Bharara, 45 other US attorneys 
11-3-2017 
President Donald Trump has asked 46 US attorneys, including Preet Bharara, the high-profile Indian-American who as head of the Southern district of New York had jurisdiction over Wall Street, to tender their resignations.

All 46 were nominees of former President Barack Obama, and there was nothing unusual in their firing — President Bill Clinton had fired over 90 in one day after assuming office — but the manner in which the resignations were sought.

“As was the case in prior transitions, many of the United States Attorneys nominated by the previous administration already have left the Department of Justice,” Justice Department spokeswoman Sarah Isgur Flores wrote in an email cited by The New York Times.

“The Attorney General (Jeff Sessions) has now asked the remaining 46 presidentially appointed US Attorneys to tender their resignations in order to ensure a uniform transition.”

Read more

Bharara’s was most surprising, considering he said last November that the President — then President-elect — had asked him to stay on.

“The President-elect asked, presumably because he’s a New Yorker and is aware of the great work that our office has done over the past seven years, asked to meet with me to discuss whether or not I’d be prepared to stay on as the United States attorney to do the work as we have done it, independently, without fear or favour for the last seven years,” the attorney had told reporters after his meeting with Trump at Trump Tower.

“We had a good meeting. I said I would absolutely consider staying on. I agreed to stay on. I have already spoken to Senator Sessions, who is as you know is the nominee to be the attorney general. He also asked that I stay on, and so I expect that I will be continuing to work at the southern district.”

He had become then the third Indian American invited by Trump to join his admiration after South Carolina governor Nikki Haley who has been tapped for US ambassador to UN and Seema Verma for medicaid and medicare services.

Bharara was also the first and only Obama appointee to have been asked till then continue, which is not altogether rare. Obama had asked Bob Gates, who was appointed by President George W Bush, to continue as his secretary of defense.

US attorneys prosecute federal crimes, and Bharara had built a reputation for pursuing securities crimes that earned him the sobriquet “Sheriff of Wall Street” — among his famous convictions was another Indian American, Rajat Gupta, formerly the head of McKinsey and director Goldman Sachs.

Bharara fell foul of Indians in 2013, for his handling of the case involving Indian diplomat Devyani Khobragade, who was arrested on charges of providing false information on a visa application for a domestic help she brought with her from India. 
