20170311 
Stepfather ‘sells’ baby for Rs 60,000 in Bihar 
11-3-2017 
Police are on the look out for the stepfather and other close relations of an infant, who allegedly sold him to a bidder for a consideration of Rs 60,000/-.

The incident took place earlier this month at Sabhapur village in Musahari block of Muzaffarpur district of north Bihar. But matter came to light on Friday when the victim’s grandfather reported the matter to the Musahari police station.

The baby, son of Mukesh Das, of Sarai Afzal at Goraul in the neighbouring Vaishali district, had gone missing on March 1.

Station house officer of Musahari police station Manoj Kumar Chaudhury said the police were investigating allegations that the victim’s mother Poonam Devi, her mother Sudha Devi and her alleged second husband Sanjiv Das had a hand in the incident.

“We received a complaint to this effect from grandfather of the victim, Munshi Das, on Friday morning,” he confirmed.

Sources said Poonam, born and brought up at Sabhapur village under Musahari block of Muzaffarpur, was married to Mukesh (of Sarai Afzal, Goraul) nearly four year back. About a year ago, he had left his village to earn his livelihood, soon after the birth of his son.

In the absence of her husband, Poonam came in contact with another man, Sanjiv Das, a resident of Bahilwada in Saraiya police station area of Muzaffarpur district. Reports have it that the two got married secretly, about two months ago.

According to sources in the know of the matter, Sanjiv, who already has a son and a daughter from his earlier marriage, refused to accept Poonam’s baby. This prompted Poonam to leave the infant with her mother, Sudha Devi, at Sabhapur.

Thereafter, it has been alleged, Sudha, the infant’s maternal grandmother, and Sanjiv, his stepfather, got together to ’sell’ the child to Mahadeo Rai of Sherpur Awabakarpur at Goraul, for a price of Rs 60,000.

Sources said when the child’s paternal grandfather, Munshi Das, got this information, he rushed to Sabhapur and sought to know the whereabouts of his grandson. Hitting a dead end, he lodged a complaint at the Musahari police station. 
