20170311 
Modi ministers hail development agenda, demonetisation for UP win 
11-3-2017 
New Delhi: Bharatiya Janata Party’s win at the Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand assembly elections show the people support for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s development agenda, senior ministers said on Saturday.

Modi expressed gratitude to the people of India for the continued faith, support and affection for the BJP. “This is very humbling & overwhelming,” he tweeted.

Election Commission data showed BJP overwhelming win at UP and Uttarakhand even though its bête noire Congress won Punjab and Goa. Congress was also slightly ahead of BJP in Manipur.

“Historic victory of BJP in UP & Uttarakhand assembly elections shows people’s support for development agenda of PM @narendramodi ji,” finance minister Arun Jaitley said in a series of tweets.

Speaking to a TV channel, Jaitley also said the BJP will fulfill its promise of a farm loan waiver in UP.

“We have continuously been working on reforms,” he said.

Joining the chorus, Minister of Urban Development, Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation and Information and Broadcasting, Venkaiah Naidu said: “Development has emerged as a new religion and real social identity of people. With this new religion, PM Modi has unified the country!”

“Mood Of Developing India (MODI) is for Making Of Developed India (MODI) under leadership of PM MODI, seen as only hope of aspiring India,” he said.

The state election results show people’s faith in government’s pro-poor policies, anti-corruption measures such as demonetisation and zero tolerance to terrorism, Naidu said in a series of tweets.

“You were saying note ban will lead to vote ban. But I say note exchange has led to vote exchange,” he told reporters, adding that despite negative propaganda by the Opposition on demonetisation, the poor have embraced anti-corruption crusade of an honest government.

Power Minister Piyush Goyal said “election results are a clear mandate of PM Modi’s pro-poor policies, good governance, demonetisation and model of development.”

Read more

India Inc also welcomed the BJP’s win at the country’s most populous state.

ASSOCHAM president Sandeep Jajodia today said one of the important takeaways of the poll outcome is that a far better coordination is expected between the country’s largest state and the ruling BJP-led National Democratic Alliance at the Centre.

“Besides, Modi’s agenda on economic development and to take on the challenges, upfront, has gone down very well with the people of the key states who are looking with a new hope for an economic development of the states. Most of the states are now being ruled by the BJP and its allies and far better level of development coordination is expected,” Jajodia said.

CII president Naushad Forbes said: “By and large the results ensure that the process of reforms would gain further credence, support and momentum at the central level.” 
