20170311 
BJP comes second, but holds all the cards in Manipur 
11-3-2017 
The BJP lost the race by a narrow margin, but is still likely to end up a winner in Manipur. In 2012 the party failed to win a single seat; now it has a great chance of forming the next government in the northeastern state.

Despite having the highest number of 25 of 60, the Congress is unlikely to get support from the smaller parties to reach the magic figure of 31 seats in the assembly. The Congress has ruled Manipur for the past 15 years.

The BJP, on the other, hand, which got 22 seats, seems to have all the cards at its disposal and just needs to play them well. Party workers and leaders are already celebrating Holi.

Read more

This election was the most closely contested in Manipur’s recent history, and both sides, Congress and BJP, did their best to win the battle of perception.

The ruling Congress tried blaming the Centre for the blockade of highways by the United Naga Council and also raked up the 2015 Framework Agreement between New Delhi and NSCN-IM, trying to convince voters that Manipur might lose territory if the deal gets implemented.

The BJP, on its part, successfully managed to fend off the allegations through high voltage rallies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, party chief Amit Shah and home minister Rajnath Singh.

Since law and order is a state subject, BJP leaders blamed Chief Minister Okram Ibobi Singh for failing to remove the four-month-old blockade. They also assured voters that Manipur won’t lose any territory.

The ruling chief minister, who has been at the helm since 2002, was targeted by BJP in other ways too. In his Imphal rally, Modi called him a “10% chief minister”, insinuating that Okram Ibobi Singh took a commission for development work.

Read more

Despite being part of Nagaland Peoples Front-led government in Nagaland, the party stayed clear of any pre-poll alliance with the outfit in Manipur, keeping in view sentiments of Meiteis in the valley area.

NPF won four seats in the Naga-dominated hills areas, and the party is expected to give outside support to BJP. National Peoples Party, which won four seats, and Lok Janshakti, with one, are expected to join the government.

The party’s Assam strategy of weaning away Congress MLAs ahead of polls, however, had a fifty-fifty success rate. Three of the six Congress legislators, who switched sides, won. The other three lost. 
