20170312 
Anil Kumble could become Team India director, Rahul Dravid coach: Reports 
12-3-2017 
Anil Kumble and Rahul Dravid played pivotal roles during Indian cricket’s ascension to the top of the cricket rankings. Even after their retirements, both Kumble and Dravid continue to contribute to the growth of Indian cricket.

Kumble is the current coach of the Indian team led by Virat Kohli while Dravid is the coach for the U-19 side. Under Kumble, India are the World No.1 side in Tests and in 2016, they did not lose a single Test. With Kumble at the helm, India have won series in West Indies and have continued a great run at home by winning series against New Zealand, England and Bangladesh.

Read More | Anil Kumble turns left arm spinner at Indian cricket team nets and this happens

Under Dravid’s coaching stint, the India U-19 side have also developed strongly. They entered the final of the U-19 World Cup while they have performed consistently.

With changes in the BCCI following the Supreme Court verdict on January 2, the Indian cricket Board is currently run by the committee of administrators (CoA) and there are reports of changes soon.

According to a report in a leading English newspaper, Kumble might soon be elevated to as team director as the CoA are keen on structural changes.

The report stated that during the BCCI awards following the end of the Bangalore Test in which India defeated Australia by 75 runs, Kumble met the CoA and they entrusted him with the job to file a comprehensive report on the senior, A side, junior and women’s teams. The series against Australia could be his last as coach and he could take the new role on April 14.

According to a senior official in the BCCI, the plans are already in place and there is a strong possibility that when new contracts are given out, these changes will be made.

Along with the proposed elevation of Kumble and Dravid, there is also talk that the cricket advisory committee could be installed. This committee had consisted of former captains Sourav Ganguly, Sachin Tendulkar and VVS Laxman and their last job was to pick Kumble as coach in June 2016. The proposed cricket advisory committee is likely to handle cricket operations of all BCCI teams. 
