20170312 
Election results the foundation of a ‘new, inclusive India’: PM Modi 
12-3-2017 
Fresh from BJP’s landslide win in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand after a bitter and often divisive campaign, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday talked about inclusivity and pitched for building a ‘new India’ by 2022 that would have made the nation’s founding fathers proud.

Accepting felicitations from party leaders and supporters at BJP headquarters, Modi said he saw the election results, particularly in Uttar Pradesh, as the “foundation of the new India”.

“I see this victory as the foundation of a new India where 65% of the population will be of young people below 35 years of age... a new India of vigilant women. A new India where the poor do not want anything by way of charity, but seek opportunity to chart out their own course. I see this change happening,” he told the gathering which lapped up every word he said, amid repeated chants of ‘Modi! Modi! Modi!’

Earlier in the day, Modi tweeted, “India is emerging, which is being powered by the strength & skills of 125 crore Indians. This India stands for development.”

Read more

In a statement on his website Narendramodi.in, the PM said, “India is transforming, powered by the strength of each and every citizen of India.

“An India that is driven by innovation, hard work and creativity; an India characterized by peace, unity and brotherhood; and an India free from corruption, terrorism, black money and dirt.”

Incidently, Modi’s ‘shamshan’ remark about crematoriums and graveyards at an election rally in UP was seen as intended to polarise voters along communal lines.

However, the theme of development ran through his felicitation speech on Sunday.

“Beyond the emotive issues, political parties fought shy of going to elections on the issue of development. Development is a difficult subject. In these elections, there was a lack of emotive issues, but the huge voter turnout after the campaign based on development shows the transition that his happening towards creation of a new India,” he said.

These elections must be evaluated as people have voted heavily despite the absence of any emotional issue. The poor have voted in large numbers on the topic of development, he said.

Read more

Modi, who was accused by his rivals of playing caste and religion politics during the campaign, said the BJP-led dispensation will take everybody along as “in democracy governments are formed with a majority but run with consensus”.

Noting that the government has no right to discriminate against anybody, Modi said, “This government is of those who have voted for it and also those who have not. Of those who have walked along, and also of those who have not.”

“Everybody will join in the making of a new India,” he said.

Having shown his characteristic aggression while campaigning, Modi made a fervent pitch for humility.

“As fruits grow on a tree, no matter how big it is, it starts bending. Nature inspires us. As the fruits of victory cover this tree call BJP, it becomes our responsibility to bend, to become more humble,” he said.

Referring to the generations of Jana Sangh and BJP leaders like Atal Bihari Vajpayee, L K Advani, Kushabhau Thakre and Jana Krishnamrrthi who “gave their youth and life” for raising “this banyan tree”, Modi said power was “not an instrument to rule but a tool of service to people”.

Talking about the concept of ‘Antyodaya’ of Jana Sangh ideologue and one of its founders Deendayal Upadhyaya for the uplift of the last man, Modi said, “The poor have to be made capable of carrying their own burden to lessen that of the middle class, encumbered by taxes.”

He lauded BJP chief Amit Shah, the party’s central and state leadership, and workers for the party’s presence in “every geographical area” of the country”.

“Today, a BJP worker can proudly say he is a member of an organisation which is the largest political party in the world,” he said.

Read more 
