20170312 
Students allege VIP treatment given to son of BJP MLA in MP board exam 
12-3-2017 
An examination centre for the ongoing class 12 board examination in Madhya Pradesh’s Bundelkhand came under scanner after some students complained that son of a ruling party legislator got “special treatment” while appearing for the test on Saturday.

Over a dozen students in their complaint to the district administration claimed the “VIP student” was allotted a separate room to write his paper and the invigilators bended over backwards to help him at the centre.

The student in question is the son of BJP MLA Rekha Yadav. His centre for the examination, conducted by the Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education (MPBSE), was in Buxwaha Model Higher Secondary School.

Miffed by the alleged favour to the legislator’s son, examinees also demanded cancellation of the examination.

Altogether 7.18 lakhs students are appearing for the examination that commenced on March 1.

“He was not only allotted a separate room, but also allowed to copy and given extra time to complete his paper,” said Rahul Sahu, a class 12 student.

Another examinee Raghvendra Rajak said, “The invigilators were extra strict with other general examinees while they were meeting out special treatment for the VIP student.”

Read more

“When we raised objection, teachers scolded us. Later, we lodged a complaint with the district administration,” said another student Yogesh Soni.

Buxwaha tehsildar Vineeta Jain admitted receiving a complaint from the students against the centre. “We have forwarded the matter to Chhatrapur collector for further action,” he said.

The MLA, however, rubbished the allegation saying it was a political conspiracy to malign her image.

“I haven’t asked anyone to give special treatment to my son. If school management helped my son to cheat, then district administration should take action against both him and the school management,” she added.

The school authorities did not wish to comment on the allegation.

For the first time the board introduced “hall tickets and Aadhar enabled biometric systems” to stop impersonation. CCTV cameras were also installed at the centres.

Even teachers were barred from using mobile phones at the centres. 
