20170312 
Manohar Parrikar appointed Goa CM by governor, asked to prove majority after being sworn in 
12-3-2017 
Goa governor Mridula Sinha on Sunday appointed defence minister Manohar Parrikar as the state’s new chief minister.

Parrikar has been asked to prove majority on the floor of the Goa legislative assembly 15 days after being sworn in, a letter issued by secretary to the governor, Rupesh Kumar Thakur, said.

The letter, which said that Parrikar had submitted evidence of support of 21 MLAs before the governor, comes hours after Parrikar said he was willing to resign his from Union ministry post to take up the CM mantle.

According to party sources, Parrikar is likely to be sworn in on Tuesday or Wednesday.

With 13 seats, the BJP finished second to the Congress’ 17 in the 40-member Goa assembly with 10 seats spread among smaller parties and independents. It is now supported by three legislators each of the Goa Forward Party and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party and two Independent legislators.

The press note sent by the Goa Governor’s office. (HT Photo)

Earlier on Sunday, Parrikar met governor Mridula Sinha with letters of support from the regional parties and independent MLAs.

“Parrikar is ready to become the chief minister, but he hasn’t resigned yet,” said Union highways minister Nitin Gadkari who was in Panaji to help negotiate with the regional parties.

In a press conference on Sunday evening, Gadkari said Parrikar would quit his position as defence minister before taking oath as the chief minister.

Parrikar is ready to become the chief minister, but he hasn’t resigned yet

- Nitin Gadkari

“We have decided to extend our support to the BJP as we feel that the Congress has no candidate worthy of the chief ministerial post. But we want Parrikar because nobody else is suitable for the job,” said Sudin Dhavalikar of the MGP.

Vijay Sardesai of the GFP expressed a similar sentiment. “We were with the Congress during the elections, but after discussions with the BJP high command, we feel they (the BJP) want to work on regional issues like us. Therefore, we have decided to extend our support to the BJP,” he told mediapersons.

Click here for full coverage on Assembly elections 2017

Parrikar will also have to quit his membership of the Rajya Sabha, and get elected to the state assembly within six months of assuming the chief minister’s office.

Meanwhile, Babu Kavlekar – who won from Quepem – was chosen as the head of the Congress legislature party in Goa.

(With IANS inputs)

Also read | Goa election 2017: Only Manohar Parrikar can save the BJP in Goa 
