20170313 
5 developments that put Manohar Parrikar, BJP on top in Goa after fractured mandate 
13-3-2017 
Despite being behind the Congress in Goa assembly election results, the BJP has staked claim to forming the next government in the state in coalition with regional parties and independent MLAs under Manohar Parrikar’s leadership.

Here are five developments that led to the BJP coming out on top in Goa after the assembly election results were announced on Saturday:

1) Running behind the Congress in results, BJP races ahead by stitching up coalition

With 13 seats, the BJP finished second to the Congress’ 17 in the 40-member Goa assembly, with 10 seats spread among smaller parties and independents.

On Sunday, the BJP enlisted the support of two Independents and three members each of the Goa Forward Party (GFP) and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP).

Read more

Though the lone NCP member Churchill Alemao has also backed the coalition, he is yet to submit a formal letter of support.

Parrikar has submitted evidence before governor Mridula Sinha of having the support of 21 MLAs in the 40-member assembly, an official release said.

2) Manohar Parrikar quitting as defence minister for homecoming

At a press conference on Sunday evening, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said Parrikar would quit his position as defence minister before taking oath as the chief minister.

“We have decided to extend our support to the BJP as we feel that the Congress has no candidate worthy of the chief ministerial post. But we want Parrikar because nobody else is suitable for the job,” said Sudin Dhavalikar of the MGP.

Read more

Vijay Sardesai of the GFP expressed a similar sentiment. “We were with the Congress during the elections, but after discussions with the BJP high command, we feel they (the BJP) want to work on regional issues like us. Therefore, we have decided to extend our support to the BJP,” he told mediapersons.

Parrikar will also have to quit his membership of the Rajya Sabha, and get elected to the state assembly within six months of assuming the chief minister’s office.

3) Governor appoints Parrikar as Goa CM

Parrikar met governor Sinha with letters of support from the regional parties and independent MLAs.

Capping the day of fast-paced developments, Sinha appointed Parrikar, the BJP Legislature Party leader, as the chief minister.

“I promise that we will give stable government which will work towards the development of the state,” Parrikar told reporters in a joint press conference with Goa election in-charge Gadkari.

4) BJP will have to prove majority in 15 days

Parrikar has been asked to prove majority on the floor of the Goa legislative assembly 15 days after being sworn in, a letter issued by secretary to the governor, Rupesh Kumar Thakur, said.

According to party sources, Parrikar is likely to be sworn in on Tuesday or Wednesday.

5) Congress says Parrikar has hijacked popular mandate

On the day the BJP cobbled up a coalition in Goa, Congress leader Digvijaya Singh accused the defence minister of “hijacking” the popular mandate.

“It is absolutely wrong on the part of the BJP to grab power when the mandate was given to the Congress by the voters (by virtue of being the single largest party),” Digvijaya Singh said.

Singh said being the single largest party, the Congress had the “first right as well as the popular mandate” to form the government.

“Parrikar has brought down the morality of politics in the country. His act of indulging in horse-trading has affected the morale of Goan politicians,” he said.

With PTI inputs 
