20170310 
Choosing your first car? Keep these three things in mind 
10-3-2017 
There are few things as exciting—and challenging—as buying your first car. It’s a decision that warrants plenty of sleepless nights, a fair bit of unwanted advice, and hours of copious research. Most of us end up driving our first car for years, and therefore it’s important to buy wisely and practically. After all, the car you finally choose is one where you will make lasting memories, whether it’s a much-awaited road trip with friends or the simple everyday joy of driving your loved ones around. Moreover, given the long hours we spend commuting every day, it only makes sense to choose a car we like spending time in, one that is reliable, safe, and, of course, great to look at and be seen in.

Besides being one of the most trustworthy brands in the market, Maruti Suzuki WagonR has also been extremely popular with Indian car buyers ever since the model first hit Indian roads in 2000. Since then, it has gone through several major and minor updates in keeping with the times and needs of Indian consumers. It is this very customer-centric thinking that prompted the brand to launch its latest variant in January 2017 – the extremely stylish WagonR VXi+. Equipped with several exciting new features, the newest WagonR offers style, safety, and ease of driving – three crucial aspects that first-time car buyers look for. If you’re in the market for a new set of wheels this summer, read on to see why the shiny, new WagonR VXi+ makes for a great choice.

The style factor

A car is pretty much an extension of its owner’s personality, and it’s important that you like the way yours looks. Keeping in mind that car buyers today prefer designs that are not just edgy but also luxurious, the new WagonR VXi+ makes a bold statement with its attractive projector headlamps, gunmetal grey alloy wheels, side skirts, and sporty front reflector grill. Inside, the dual-tone interiors are styled in classy beige, with premium piano finish, an eagle wings audio system with USB & AUX facility, and a blue-theme instrument cluster. The new variant also comes in a bold beautiful Midnight Blue, giving prospective buyers seven exciting options to choose from.

In addition, the WagonR’s unique tall boy design makes it one of the few entry-level cars in India that not only gives tall drivers comfortable leg room, but is also equipped with enough boot space to lug things around—thus making it a great choice for Indian families.

Ease of driving

As a first-time driver, it’s important that your car is attuned to your needs and gets you comfortable with the process of driving. The WagonR VXi+ fulfils this requirement in several ways. Expect stress-free, pleasant rides with features like adjustable steering, power windows, wide-opening doors for easy entry, a foldable rear seat for added storage, and a digital fuel indicator with double trip meter. The VXi+ comes with advanced AGS technology that is specially designed keeping Indian road conditions in mind. It effortlessly lets you switch between Auto and Manual modes as you drive, thus easing the stress of heavy traffic conditions.

WagonR further comes with intelligent gas port injection technology as an alternate fuel option that ensures smooth pick-up, comfortable rides and less cost per kms, which make it a practical choice as well.

Safety first

It goes without saying that safety is one of the first things that a new car buyer will look at. As one of the most dependable brands in the market today, the WagonR has consistently worked on advancing its safety features through several updates and new technologies. The newest variant has an energy-absorbing body structure, anti-lock braking system for slippery roads, dual airbags, and a rear wiper for enhanced visibility during monsoon drives. In CNG versions, a micro-switch is provided on the fuel lid that cuts off fuel supply and prevents accidental starting of the vehicle during refueling. All system-related harnesses are integrated with main harnesses that ensure protection against accidental fires.

The WagonR continues to be among India’s top-five bestselling vehicles, and a big reason behind this is the brand’s attention to detail. Small but thoughtful touches such as a seat-belt indicator, a trendy rear spoiler, along with Maruti Suzuki’s standard warranty and wide service network, ensure that you can enjoy your drive completely stress-free.

The all-new Maruti WagonR VXi+ aims to make everyday driving great by focusing on three basic factors that car owners in India look for – Style, safety & ease of driving. For more details, visit www.marutisuzuki.com/wagonr or book your test drive today. 
