20170313 
Arun Jaitley gets additional charge of Defence Ministry after Manohar Parrikar’s resignation 
13-3-2017 
Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley (File Photo) Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley (File Photo)

Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley on Monday was given additional charge of Defence Ministry after Manohar Parrikar resigned to take over the new role as Goa Chief Minister. President Pranab Mukherjee accepted the resignation of Parrikar from the Council of Ministers with immediate effect and assigned the charge of the Ministry of Defence to Jaitley, in addition to his existing portfolios.

“The President of India, as advised by the Prime Minister, has accepted the resignation of Shri Manohar Parrikar, from the Council of Ministers, with immediate effect, under clause (2) of Article 75 of the Constitution. Further, as advised by the Prime Minister, the President has directed that Shri Arun Jaitely, Cabinet Minister, shall be assigned the charge of the Ministry of Defence, in addition to his existing portfolios,” reads the press release from Rashtrapati Bhavan.

Manohar Parrikar outside Hotel Cida De Goa, Panjim after meeting with BJP and other independent MLAs on Sunday night. (Express photo by Nirmal Harindran) Manohar Parrikar outside Hotel Cida De Goa, Panjim after meeting with BJP and other independent MLAs on Sunday night. (Express photo by Nirmal Harindran)

Parrikar will be swearing in as the Chief Minister of Goa on Tuesday heading the BJP-led ministry which has the support of regional outfits and Independents. “I have tendered my resignation as Defence Minister and sent it to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO)” Parrikar told PTI.

“I will be taking the oath tomorrow evening along with the cabinet ministers,” he added. Asked how many ministers would be sworn in, Parrikar said, “The decision on the number of ministers and other issues are being currently worked out. Once the cabinet is finalised, we will inform the media.”

This is the second time that Jaitley is holding the additional portfolio of Defence Ministry during the present NDA government. He was incharge of the ministry earlier from May 26 to November 9 in 2014.

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd 
