20170313 
Manipur governor asks CM Ibobi Singh to resign as both BJP, Congress claim majority 
13-3-2017 
With both the Congress and the BJP staking claim to form the government in Manipur, governor Najma Heptulla has asked incumbent chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh of the Congress to resign immediately.

“Ibobi Singh, along with deputy chief minister Gaikhamgam and state Congress president T N Haokip, had met the governor last night. The governor had asked Singh to resign immediately so that she can start the process of government formation,” a highly placed source in the governor’s house said.

The Manipur numbers game Congress 28

BJP 21

NPP 4

NPF 4

LJP 1

AITC 1

Independent 1

Singh had shown Heptulla a list of 28 MLAs of Congress — which fell three seats short of majority in the recently concluded elections — and claimed the support of four legislators of National People’s Party (NPP).

“On seeing the names of the four NPP MLAs on an ordinary piece of paper, Heptullah asked Ibobi Singh to bring the NPP president and the MLAs,” the source said.

Heptulla refused to accept an ordinary piece of paper as a “letter of support”, the source said.

Read more

Hours before Singh’s meeting, BJP leaders had approached the governor with a list of 32 MLAs, which included its 21 legislators, four each from Naga People’s Front and NPP, and the lone MLAs of LJP and Trinamool Congress.

Congress MLA from Andro, T Shyamkumar was also present and has backed the saffron party’s claim to power.

BJP also submitted a letter from the Naga People’s Front (NPF) president regarding their support to the BJP to form the government, the source said.

The 76-year-old governor, who has served as deputy chairperson of Rajya Sabha when in Congress and as minister of minority affairs in the BJP’s Narendra Modi government, is yet to invite any party for government formation.

Outgoing deputy chief minister Gaikhangam Gangmei said the Congress, being the single largest party, must be allowed first to form the government. He also dismissed as “completely baseless” the reports that several Congress legislators, including Shyam Kumar, were in touch with the BJP and expressed a desire to support a BJP government.

“The entire Congress is united and stand firmly behind Ibobi Singh. These reports of defection in the Congress are absolutely baseless and have been planted by the BJP to create confusion,” he said.

Vivekraj Wangkhem of the NPP maintained his party is supporting the BJP to form government.

“Our party and elected members have extended support to the BJP in the formation of the ministry,” he said.

Wangkhem also said that the party’s earlier written assurance to the Congress is invalidated.

The Congress had won 28 seats in Manipur, followed by the BJP with 21. The NPP and the NPF have won four seats each, while the LJP, Trinamool and an Independent have bagged one each.

Meanwhile, Congress legislature party meeting was underway at the chief minister’s office where 27 MLAs were present, the party’s state general secretary Devrata Singh said.

A meeting of BJP legislators was also on to elect their leader, as the party is yet to announce its chief ministerial candidate.

(With inputs from Agencies) 
