20170313 
Dalit JNU Scholar commits suicide 
13-3-2017 
Dalit scholar Muthu Krishnan Dalit scholar Muthu Krishnan

Till June last year, Dalit scholar Muthu Krishnan, 28, was at the forefront of the Justice for Rohith Vemula movement. Krishnan, who was nicknamed Rajini because he was a great fan of filmstar Rajinikanth, and Rohith were very close friends and he was distraught for several months after the later committed suicide on January 17 last year. Krishnan committed suicide at his friend’s house in Munirka today.

Krishnan who hails from Salem joined UoH to do his MA in History. He then completed M.Phil in History and had joined for PhD here in UoH in 2015. “But he was passionate about studying at JNU. It was his big dream since many years to study and pass out of JNU. He had gone there to meet his friends earlier and was totally taken by JNU campus and the student life there. He tried for M.Phil but could not get through. He worked very hard when he could not make it to JNU for his PhD. But last June-July when he got admission to do his PhD at JNU, he was ecstatic. He was so thrilled that he ran around the New Research Scholar hostel to tell us all,’’ said Munna Sunnaki, his close friend. Munna said that a person who worked hard for five years to get into JNU and commit suicide within a year is very shocking and unsettling. “WE don’t know what he went though there to take such an extreme step after struggling so much to realize his dream,’’ he said.

Watch What Else Is making News

Krishnan, who also would joke that he had Rajinikanth’s looks, struggled a lot, his friends say. “His English was very poor which was one reason why could not get in JNU earlier. He was so committed and hardworking that he worked on his English language for nearly a year, spending hours together in the UoH library. He used to joke a lot about his rustic, village background but we used to encourage him to follow his dreams. When he left the campus to go to JNU we missed him very much. A few days after joining JNU he told us it was a big cultural shock for him,’’ another friend said.

Krishnan was heartbroken when his friend Rohith Vemula committed last January. He wrote several small articles on him on his Facebook page, and was present at all the protest meetings and rallies held in memory of Rohith Vemula. A great fan of Mark Zuckerberg and Christiano Ronaldo, Krishnan was a movie buff, his friend recall.

Krishnan was also participating in the blockade of JNU Ad Block called by Committee of Suspended Students for Social Justice against the implementation of draconian May 2016 UGC Gazette notification. Krishnan wrote on his FB page recently: “When equality is denied everything is denied. There is no Equality in M.phil/phd Admission, there is no equality in Viva – voce, there is only denial of equality, denying prof. Sukhadeo thorat recommendation, denying Students protest places in Ad – block, denying the education of the Marginals.”

“We used to be in touch and talk frequently; all his old buddies since his MA are here at UoH but he did not reveal anything that gave any indication about his state of mind. He was also always, the fun-loving kind. So it is a big shock for us,’’ K Kumar, another friend said. 
