20170314 
Goa govt formation: How Congress lost the plot despite finishing first in election 
14-3-2017 
A last-minute decision to field a candidate against Vijay Sardesai of the Goa Forward Party (GFP) seems to have cost the Congress dear in the race for government formation in Goa, despite emerging as the single-largest party in the state assembly.

The Congress had initially decided to support GPF candidates on two seats in the assembly elections held on February 4.

As part of a “secret pact”, the Congress had decided to support Sardesai from Fatorda constituency but huge resentment within the party forced the leadership to field a candidate against him. This angered Sardesai and is said to be the major reason for him to go with the BJP.

Read more

While Sardesai won the seat, Jose D’Silva of the Congress was a distant fourth.

However, the Congress continued to support Vinod Datarama Paliencar from Siolim and he went on to win the elections. The third Goa Forward candidate who won the elections was Jayesh Vidyadhar Salgaonkar from Saligao.

The Congress finished with 17 seats, while the BJP has 13 in the 40-member assembly. The GFP has 3, the same number as the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party. One legislator from the Nationalist Congress Party won and three independents triumphed.

The governor invited the BJP to form the government in the state after Manohar Parrikar resigned as Union defence minister to return as the state’s chief minister. Goa Congress leaders blamed the leadership for “handing over the government” to the BJP on a “platter” by delaying the naming of the legislature party leader.

Read more

Independent candidate Rohan Khaunte from Porvorim had also managed to get the Congress on his side. He won from the seat.

While Khaunte announced his support to the Congress after the results, Sardesai and other Goa Forward candidates sealed the deal with the BJP. The move prompted party president Prabhakar Timble to resign in protest.

Expelled Congress leader and United Goan Party chief Atanasio (Babush) Monserratte, who had secured his former party’s support, lost from Panaji.

Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) candidate Churchill Alemao, who was a minister in the Congress government, had quit the party in 2014 after his daughter Valanka was denied a Lok Sabha ticket.

Alemao, who is facing bribery charges in the Louis Berger case, won from Benaulim and immediately pledged support to the BJP in what is seen as “his revenge” against the Congress. His daughter was also suspended as the Youth Congress chief in Goa on the grounds of “indiscipline” after the Lok Sabha elections in July 2014. 
