20170315 
Gayatri Prajapati, rape-accused Samajwadi Party leader, arrested in Lucknow 
15-3-2017 
Police arrested former Uttar Pradesh minister and rape suspect Gayatri Prasad Prajapati from Lucknow on Wednesday morning, news agency ANI and television channels reported, roughly three weeks after the Samajwadi Party leader went missing.

Prajapati was booked on a Supreme Court directive and an FIR was lodged on February 17 against the minister and six others for allegedly gangraping a woman and attempting to rape her minor daughter.

A Look-Out notice as well as a non-bailable warrant was issued against Prajapati. His passport too was impounded and airports across the country were alerted so that he could not flee the country.

Prajapati was sacked by former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav from his cabinet in 2016 during a bruising feud with his father Mulayam Singh Yadav and uncle Shivpal Yadav. He was later reinstated, triggering outrage and denting the law-and-order plank that Akhilesh was running his campaign on.

In the just-concluded assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Prajapati lost from Amethi, the seat he held, to the BJP.

Prajapati was also made the target of many potshots by the BJP, which used the former minister to undercut the SP’s election campaign and alleged that Akhilesh wasn’t serious about apprehending criminals.

Read more | Gayatri Prajapati case: Three more accomplices of rape-accused SP leader held

At an election rally earlier this month, BJP chief Amit Shah had promised Prajapati would be arrested if the saffron party came to power. Addressing an election rally in Ambedkarnagar, Shah had said, “As soon as the BJP forms the government in UP on March 11, we would search (Gayatri Prasad) Prajapati even from the hell and send him to jail.”

A 35-year-old woman had accused Prajapati of raping her when she met him three years ago. He is also accused of taking obscene photos of the victim and threatening her to make the pictures public and raping her for the past two years.

However, Prajapati claimed it to be a conspiracy of the BJP in order to distract people’s attention from the assembly polls. 
