20170315 
Delhi faces power threat as NTPC threatens to cut supply to BSES over non-payment 
15-3-2017 
State-owned power generation company NTPC Ltd has threatened to suspend supply of electricity to the Anil Ambani -run Delhi discoms if they fail to clear dues of Rs 239 crore.

The Reliance Group owns two power distribution companies in Delhi — BSES Rajdhani Power Ltd and BSES Yamuna Power Ltd.

NTPC said that it supplies electricity worth Rs 300 crore every month to these discoms, and as per their agreement, payments should be made within a month. But the state-run company alleged that dues of Rs 239 crore have accrued over the last 10 months. With mounting dues, NTPC argued that it had become difficult for them to pay fuel suppliers.

This threat from NTPC is not the first one. A similar stand-off occurred in May 2016, while NTPC has also dragged both discoms to the Supreme Court over non-payment of dues.

Read more

NTPC moved the Supreme Court in March 2016 for its intervention to recover the payments from BSES Rajdhani and BSES Yamuna. It argued that the discoms had stopped making payments for buying electricity since November 2015. The matter is still pending at the Supreme Court.

“BSES is under huge financial stress due to non liquidation of regulatory assets, which are over Rs. 16,000 crore as on March 31, 2016. As compared to this, total overdues payable by BSES Yamuna Power Limited (BYPL) is around Rs 239 crore only,” a BSES spokesperson said in an emailed statement.

“Whenever we reach out to officials in the two BSES companies they always say that they don’t have money. We cannot allow this to continue and our dues to accumulate,” said a NTPC official on condition of anonymity.

Read more

NTPC said this payment is due for supplying 2027 MW power to the discoms. “We can’t wait endlessly for BSES to pay up. NTPC also has to pay to fuel suppliers” explains the source quoted earlier.

In fact, sources say that a part payment would also be acceptable to the power generator, failing which Delhi could plunge into darkness. 
