20170315 
JD(U), RLSP bag one seat each in Bihar council polls 
15-3-2017 
Janata Dal (United) candidate Sanjeev Kumar Singh and Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) contestant Sanjeeva Shyam Singh retained their teachers’ constituency seats as the two results out of total four in the biennial polls of the Bihar Legislative Council were declared here on Wednesday.

Counting was still on for the two graduate constituencies -one of Gaya and the other of Saran district. The four constituencies went to the polls on March 9.

JD (U)’s Sanjeev Kumar Singh won from the Kosi teachers’ constituency, defeating the BJP’s Prof Jagdish Chandra, by a margin of 6113 votes. Sanjeev polled 8,309 votes whereas Jagdish Chandra got 2,296 votes. An Independent candidate Nitesh Kumar was also in the fray.

With this win Sanjiv Kumar Singh retained his seat. He was set to retire on May 8 this year.

Sanjeeva Shyam Singh of union minister Upendra Kushwaha-led RLSP, a constituent of the NDA, won the Gaya Teachers’ seat, beating his closest rival, DN Sinha of Lok Janashakti Party, also an NDA constituent, by 3,600 votes.

RJD’s Dinesh Prasad Sinha and Congress candidate Hriday Narayan Singh Yadav were also in fray for the Gaya teachers’ constituency.

Initially, JD (U) and RJD had announced their candidates for two seats each, leaving the Congress, also a constituent of the ruling Grand Alliance in a lurch.

Later, Congress also fielded its candidates on two seats of Gaya.

A total of 48 candidates were contesting the four council seats.

Prominent among those in the fray for the two graduates’ constituencies were legislative council chairman Awadhesh Narayan Singh (BJP) from Gaya and former minister, NDA-backed Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) leader Mahachandra Prasad Singh, from Saran.

In a multi-corner contest, Awadhesh Narayan Singh is up against RJD’s Punit Kumar Singh, Congress candidate Ajay Kumar Singh and Independent candidate Amit Sinha.

Sources said both Awadhesh Narayan Singh and Mahchandra Prasad Singh were leading in their respective constituencies.

These two results were expected to be declared late in the night. 
