20170315 
Far away from Virat Kohli why MS Dhoni is still a darling 
15-3-2017 
There’s always a first for everything and no wonder MS Dhoni will be remembered as the first among equals signing an autograph for a crazy fan while he was out there batting for Jharkhand in the Vijay Hazare Trophy quarter-final against Vidarbha.

Crazy fans are not uncommon especially in India where cricketers enjoy demi-God status.

Read more | Targeted by Australians, Virat Kohli is ready to let his bat talk in Ranchi

Whether Abbas Ali Baig being kissed during a Test match or Sourav Ganguly finding an overzealous fan breach al security cordon to touch his feet, cricketers young and old have a tale to tell.

But the young man wearing half-sleeves red and blue check shirt along with denims could not have realised that once he had evaded the security and reached at the centre strip, the Indian skipper standing at the non-striker end would oblige as he put forth a white sheet for his autograph.

With Jharkhand coasting along towards a modest victory target, the former India cricket team skipper was in good mood and to everyone’s surprise obliged the fan (Jharkhand beat Vidarbha by six wickets to enter the semifinals).

Read more | India vs Australia: Closely-guarded Ranchi pitch leaves Aussies miffed

Not only did he show humility but also doused what could have been a potentially volatile situation if he would have got angry and forced the security personnel to give the man in question some serious dressing down. But as his wont, the skipper handled the situation well.

Life also generally tough for other Dhoni fans who stood on the fence of the ground for the entirety of the game with the Air Force ground not equipped to handle big crowds. The situation was similar to 2013 Ranji Trophy season when Sachin Tendulkar played semi-final for Mumbai against Services.

Read more | Numbers Do Lie - ‘Rahul Dravid had more impact than Sachin Tendulkar’

It was rare sight as Dhoni walked into the middle in the sane setting of Palam Ground with business as usual on the road leading to the stadium.

However the word of Dhoni out in the middle spread like fire and the passersby stopped their vehicles to get a glimpse of one of India’s favourite sporting icon.

But it was the young man, who got the sign to savour. 
