20170316 
Trapped Movie Review, Trailer, & Show timings at Times of India 
16-3-2017 
Hell in a high-rise



Story: ​ ‘Shaurya’ (Rajkummar Rao) must pluck up the ‘courage’ (pun intended) to stay alive after he accidentally locks himself up in his new rented apartment in a desolate Mumbai high-rise, for almost a week. To make things worse, his phone battery dies and since the building is devoid of residents, electricity and water or food supply, Shaurya must take extreme measures to survive this unexpected nightmare.





Review: ‘Trapped’ centres on one man’s fight for survival. He is not on a deserted island (‘Cast Away’) or an isolated canyon (‘127 Hours’) or an ocean (‘Life of Pi’) but in a Mumbai apartment, right in the middle of a crowded street. Vikramaditya Motwane’s brilliance lies in turning this unsuspecting setup into a hellish playground.



Denial turns into panic as the sun sets and a sense of claustrophobia creeps in making you hold your breath. You feel imprisoned on that flat along with the protagonist who does whatever it takes to survive, even facing his fear of rats. His hallucinations become yours. Hunger can turn one into a beast, so this one’s certainly not for the faint-hearted. It often makes your squirm in your seat with its appalling proceedings. You do heave a sigh of relief after the film ends and value your freedom on walking out. The thought that you have the privilege to gorge on some buttery roadside Pav Bhaji that Shaurya couldn’t, is a testament to the makers’ victory.



Driving this one-man show is a terrific Rajkummar Rao, who allows the film to solely feed on his character’s despair. His ability as an actor to portray this ordeal is astounding. Geetanjali Thapa is pleasant.



However, given the nature of the story, ‘Trapped’ does test your patience after a while. You also doubt the protagonist’s intelligence and sanity. Why would you rent a flat from a dubious agent, in an empty building? A few occurrences seem implausible. How come even fire doesn’t draw any attention? Nonetheless, the mounting tension makes you overlook these flaws and a bloated run time. ‘SH** happens’!

 
