20170316 
From British woman murder to Goa floor test: Top 10 stories making the headlines today 
16-3-2017 
The following stories are making the headlines today:

1) 28-year-old British woman raped and murdered in Goa, body found on beach

Goa police claimed to have solved the rape and murder case of dual British-Irish national Danielle McLaughlin, who travelled to India on a British passport and was found dead in Canacona area of south Goa on Tuesday. The police have arrested one Vikas Bhagat who has reportedly confessed to the crime. The 28-year-old McLaughlin came to Goa with a friend and celebrated Holi in Canacona village, known for its Palolem beach. She was found dead on Tuesday morning at an isolated spot on a beach in Devbag village, 80km from Panaji.

Read the full story here.

2) Goa Assembly floor test today

Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar is expected to sail through today’s floor test in the Goa Assembly. Parrikar, who was sworn-in along with nine ministers last evening, has the support of 22 legislators, two more than the halfway mark of 20 in the 40-member Assembly. The 61-year-old IITian, who stepped down as Defence Minister and became the Goa Chief Minister for the fourth time, is confident of proving the majority on the support given to him by his alliance partners Goa Forward Party (GFP), Maharashtravadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and the independents.

Follow for live updates.

3) UP BJP legislature party meets in Lucknow

Uttar Pradesh BJP legislature party is likely to meet in Lucknow today to discuss the chief ministerial candidate for the key Hindi heartland state. The party’s observers, Union minister M Venkaiah Naidu and general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, will be present at the meeting. The party has authorised BJP chief Amit Shah to choose the next chief minister. The names doing the rounds are Manoj Sinha, the minister of state for railways, Keshav Prasad Maurya, an OBC leader, Dinesh Sharma, BJP’s party’s national vice-president, Suresh Khanna, the leader of the legislature party in the outgoing Assembly, and Siddharth Nath Singh, the grandson of Lal Bahadur Shastri.

4) Amarinder Singh takes oath as Punjab CM

Amarinder Singh, who led the Congress to victory in Punjab after a gap of 10 years, took oath as the state’s 26th chief minister at Chandigarh on Thursday. Singh, who turned 75 on March 11, is likely to induct nine ministers initially, party sources said adding that the cabinet would be expanded later. The state can have a maximum of 18 ministers. The Congress has 77 MLAs in the assembly.

Follow live updates here.

5) India fast-tracks hydro projects worth $15 billion in Jammu and Kashmir

India has fast-tracked hydropower projects worth $15 billion in Kashmir in recent months, three federal and state officials said, ignoring warnings from Islamabad that power stations on rivers flowing into Pakistan will disrupt water supplies. Pakistan has opposed some of these projects before, saying they violate a World Bank-mediated treaty on the sharing of the Indus river and its tributaries upon which 80% of its irrigated agriculture depends.

Read the full story here.

6) Maruti plant workers to boycott lunch as sign of solidarity

Workers in Maruti plants at Gurgaon, Manesar and Bawal will boycott their lunch today in solidarity with the 31 former colleagues who were convicted for violence in 2012. The quantum of punishment for the convicted workers will be pronounced tomorrow.

7) Demonetisation violation? Banks accepted over Rs 1 lakh crore lakh without PAN

In the weeks after demonetisation, banks across India received about Rs 1.13-lakh crore in “high-value deposits” from customers without valid documents, indicating possible collusion of officials to conceal dodgy cash, classified government data accessed by HT revealed. About half of these transactions took place in six states -- Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka.

Read the full story here.

8) Painting it saffron: How the BJP is making inroads into the Northeast

After Assam and Arunachal Pradesh, the BJP has expanded its foray into the Northeast by forming a government in Manipur with its allies. However, it is not resting on its laurels just yet. A day before the results for the Manipur assembly polls were announced, party leaders held a protest rally in Tripura – which goes to the polls in early 2018 along with Meghalaya and Nagaland. The Mizoram polls are scheduled for later this year. Here’s a look at how the BJP managed to win power in some Northeastern states, and is trying to gain a foothold in others.

Read the full story here.

9) Column: Assembly elections: Former generals should steer clear of politics

While we have always had some politicians with military backgrounds—Amarinder Singh himself is a case in point—the trend of senior retired officers entering politics is more recent. And it is deeply problematic. The military is a community with close ties between serving and retired soldiers. Politicisation of the latter will inevitably affect the former.

Read the full article here.

10) Climate change is making people sick, say American doctors

Extreme weather, such as hurricanes and droughts, may become more common, destroying not only homes and livelihoods but also wreaking havoc on people’s mental health, a report by a coalition by 11 US medical group warns. “Doctors in every part of our country see that climate change is making Americans sicker,” said Mona Sarfaty, a physician and director of the Medical Society Consortium on Climate and Health. “Physicians are on the frontlines and see the impacts in exam rooms. What’s worse is that the harms are felt most by children, the elderly, Americans with low-income or chronic illnesses, and people in communities of colour.”

Read the full story here. 
