20170316 
Honda WR-V launch today: Five things to know about this ‘Jazz on steroids’ 
16-3-2017 
Honda is set for another big launch in 2017, after it launched the new gen City a month ago. The new WR-V looks like a Jazz on steroids, by which the Japanese automaker looks to take on the likes of Etios Cross, Polo Cross and i20 Active in the cross-hatchback segment.

Though cars in the segment seldom sell in good volumes, the fandom for them is different and consistent.

Here are five other things to know about the cross-hatchback from Honda:

1) WR-V, which stands for “Winsome Runabout vehicle”, is essentially derived from Jazz from core to the skin. The bodyline, styling on the inside and the mechanicals under the hood are all taken from the hot hatch and beefed up to make a WR-V.

Honda is placing this car between Jazz and the BR-V in its portfolio, so this one is expected to hold price tags between Rs 7 to 10 lakh.

The bodyline reminds of the Jazz, and the rear of the BR-V. The L-shaped tail lamps are nice. (AutocarIndia photo)

2) Honda has made this car distinct from Jazz in its styling and feel: The bonnet line is raised, the Honda logo sits on the thick chrome slat floating over a honeycomb grille and the bumper is sculpted to emote aggression of a cross.

The rear gets inspired partly from Jazz and more from BR-V. The L-shaped tail lamps are placed on a tapering V-tailgate. The contrasting silver skidplates on the blackened bumper add to the cross-hatch feel which we also see in the other cars in the segment.

3) Honda has worked smart to make the cabin space contemporary. The gadgetry comes from the new City – the floating DigiPad is a seven-inch touchscreen that can be connected to Wi-Fi for MirrorLink smartphone connectivity and navigation, and comes loaded with 1.5GB on-board storage. There are two USB slots, two micro-SD card slots and an HDMI port too. And then there’s a reversing camera with multi-views.

The best view from inside a WR-V however could come from the first-in-class sunroof.

The cabin is a carry-forward from the Jazz, plus a tech enhanced infotainment system. Look at those thick A-pillars. (AutocarIndia)

4) Honda WR-V borrows its engines from the Jazz.

i-VTEC 1.2litre petrol | 90 hp (91.2 PS) power @ 6000 rpm | 110 Nm torque @ 4800 rpm | 5-speed manual gearbox

i-DTEC 1.5litre diesel | 100 hp (101.3 PS) power @ 3600 rpm | 200 Nm @ 1750 rpm | 6-speed manual gearbox

5) The new WR-V has been pit against the i20 Active which starts at Rs 6.77 lakh, Toyota Etios Cross starting Rs 6.6 lakh and the Volkswagen Cross Polo which comes north of Rs 7.76 lakh. Knowing Honda’s pricing, the new cross from Japan may start at Rs 7 lakh, when it is launched on March 16.

Read the review of Honda WR-V here

Watch this space for pricing and other updates from the launch. Tweet to @htTweets with #HTAuto. 
