20170316 
Beauty and the Beast Movie Review, Trailer, & Show timings at Times of India 
16-3-2017 
movie

: This is a live-action remake of Disney’s classic love story. ‘Beauty lies within’ is what an enchantress expects a vain and arrogant prince (Dan Stevens) to know. He learns it the hard way when her curse turns him into a terrifying beast. Her spell can only be broken if he finds true love. Meanwhile, Belle (Emma Watson), the non-conforming daughter of a village inventor and artist, seeks an adventure. She stumbles upon the beast and magic unfolds…: It doesn’t matter if you are or aren’t a fan of Disney princesses or the classic fairy-tales. Book your tickets for this musical in IMAX 3D now, as Bill Condon’s recreation is delectably mesmerising and magical.The special effects, sound, costumes, voice-overs, songs - overall production values are first-rate. They make you live the fairy-tale as you are transported to the castle along with Belle, experiencing her adventure. As she befriends the castle’s enchanting staff (voiced by the finest actors like Ewan McGregor, Ian McKellen, Emma Thompson, Stanley Tucci), you too grow fond of each and every character.The depiction of eternal love between Watson and mo-cap Stevens, however, isn’t as awe-inspiring as the overall visual excellence and grandeur of this spectacular production. While story-wise it stays true to the original animated film, the execution is a lot darker, grimmer.The beast gets a terrifying CGI makeover with Stevens rendering a decent motion-capture performance if not memorable. Watson plays the feminist heroine with conviction. While we like this feisty protagonist, her slightly modified character lacks a certain amount of compassion, making her seem a tad conceited more than confident. Luke Evans is impressive as the self-obsessed, hare-brained Romeo.What essentially works for ‘Beauty and the Beast’ is its relevance. It stands out because no matter how old the tale, it holds significance especially today, when smart phones and selfies have turned us all into beauty loving beasts. 
