20170316 
Hisar triple murder accused DSP attempts suicide in Panchkula, battling for life 
16-3-2017 
Former Hisar deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Bhagwan Dass, who was booked for murder of three people in Hansi on Monday and subsequently transferred to the police headquarters here, attempted suicide with his service pistol here on Wednesday.

He allegedly shot himself in the right temple at the Police Lines, Mogianand, and the bullet passed through his head. He was taken to a private hospital where he is battling for life.

Dass, 52, had come to Panchkula on Tuesday evening after being transferred on Monday for being named in an FIR for the murder of three people, including a BSF jawan, at Sekhpura village under Hansi sub-division of Hisar district.

Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Dalip Singh had got room number 104 booked for him at the officers’ mess, Police Lines. Dalip is a batchmate of Dass and they had joined the Haryana Police together in 1994 as assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs).

On Wednesday, Dass called up for breakfast around 9.15 am, which was delivered to him by an attendant. Meanwhile, Dalip was on his way to Raipur Rani as agriculture minister OP Dhankar was visiting there. He decided to meet Dass on the way. When he entered his room, he saw him lying on bed and bleeding. He rushed him to Alchemist Hospital.

Talking to the media, Panchkula deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Anil Dhawan said, “No suicide note has been recovered. The search of the room was conducted by a forensic team. As of now, it is not clear why he attempted suicide.”

Dhawan added that Dass was extremely critical and was on ventilator. “The bleeding has not stopped. I even called some policemen to come to hospital to donate blood.” Dhawan also donated blood for Dass.

No case has been registered so far, said Chandimandir SHO inspector Harbhajan Singh.

Dass and 23 others were booked by the police for murder of Ram Kumar (57), Mukesh Kumar (22) and Pradeep Kumar (30) at Sekhpura. Pradeep, a BSF jawan, had come home to the village to celebrate Holi.

It is alleged that Dass had a dispute with former village sarpamch Balbir Singh who had contested panchayat election against his daughter Pooja Rani. The victims were said to be close to Balbir. 
