20170316 
31 years later, Diego Maradona recreates ‘Hand of God’ FIFA World Cup goal 
16-3-2017 
England and Argentina will renew their football rivalry in the group stage of the U-20 World Cup to be held in Suwon, South Korea, in May.

The draw took place in Suwon and featured former Argentina stars Diego Maradona and Pablo Aimar, who won the trophy as players in 1979 and 1997, respectively.

“Argentina has good players but they have to improve if they want to get through,” Maradona told reporters in Suwon. “But I don’t see them as a favourite.”

But what stole the show was another Maradona touch of genius. The Argentina legend recreated his ‘Hand of God’ goal he scored against England 31 years after the World Cup quarter-final.

This time it was in a five-a-side match to mark the draw for the U-20 World Cup in Suwon. A video showed, the 56-year-old rolled back the years entertaining fans alongside Aimar.

Diego Maradona and Pablo Aimar are both no strangers to the competition. Maradona won the tournament in 1979 while Aimar was won a World Cup winners’ medal in 1997.

“It is with great emotion that I have travelled to Korea Republic to take part in the draw,” said Maradona.

“It takes me back to where it all started for me, with my first major title in 1979. The U-20 World Cup is the pinnacle for every young player and hopefully this year we will see the Maradonas and Aimars of the future,” said Maradona.

At the official draw on Wednesday, England and Argentina were placed in Group A along with tournament host South Korea and Guinea.

Italy and Uruguay will meet in Group D along with Japan and South Africa, while the United States were grouped with Ecuador, Senegal and Saudi Arabia in Group F.

New Zealand, the 2015 tournament host, was placed in Group E with France, Honduras and Vietnam. Germany, Venezuela, Vanuatu and Mexico are in Group A.

Portugal will be expected to progress from Group C, which also contains Iran, Costa Rica and Zambia.

The tournament kicks off May 20 and the final is scheduled for June 11.

Serbia, who claimed their first Under-20 World Cup title with a dramatic extra-time winner against Brazil in 2015, did not qualify. 
