20170316 
‘Merciless attacks’ to ‘more misery’: 5 times North Korea threatened US 
16-3-2017 
North Korea warned the United States on Tuesday of “merciless” attacks if an aircraft carrier strike group led by the USS Carl Vinson, which is joining South Korean forces for joint military drill, infringes on its “sovereignty or dignity”.

Tuesday’s warning was only the latest in a string of brazen threats by the reclusive country, which has conducted two nuclear tests and a series of missile launches since last year.

Here are five times North Korea has threatened to attack America in the past:

January 2017

In response to the Trump administration’s statement about developing a “state of the art” missile defence system, North Korean officials released a statement to the country’s Central TV network.

“The US will face a position more miserable than that in the Pueblo case if it forgets that lesson and frantically pursues new ways to provoke a war against the north,” Central TV said, referring to the capture of an American intelligence ship, the USS Pueblo, during the Cold War.

March 2016

Last year, North Korea threatened to launch “indiscriminate” nuclear strikes on South Korea and America during their annual joint military exercise.

“As the joint military exercises to be staged by the enemies are regarded as the most undisguised nuclear war drills aimed to infringe upon the sovereignty of the DPRK, its military counteraction will be more preemptive and offensive nuclear strike to cope with them,” the statement by the National Defense Commission of North Korea and published in the state-run Korean Central News Agency said.

March 2016

North Korea claimed it could wipe out Manhattan by sending a hydrogen bomb on a ballistic missile to the heart of New York City.

“Our hydrogen bomb is much bigger than the one developed by the Soviet Union,” DPRK Today, a state-run outlet, reported Sunday. DPRK stands for the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, North Korea’s official name.

“If this H-bomb were to be mounted on an intercontinental ballistic missile and fall on Manhattan in New York City, all the people there would be killed immediately and the city would burn down to ashes,” the report said, citing a nuclear scientist named Cho Hyong Il.

March 2016

In the same month last year, North Korea released a provocative video depicting a nuclear attack on Washington, DC. The four-minute video was released by the North Korean propaganda website DPRK.

“If the American imperialists provoke us a bit, we will not hesitate to slap them with a pre-emptive nuclear strike,” the Korean subtitles read, according to a translation in The New York Times. “The United States must choose! It’s up to you whether the nation called the United States exists on this planet or not.”

May 2015

Park Yong-Chol, the deputy director of the North Korean think tank the Institute for Research into National Reunification, told CNN his country has the missile capability to strike mainland US and would strike it if provoked.

“We are equipped with nuclear arsenals. We may use them if we are forced by the US to do so,” Park told the American television news channel in a rare two-hour interview. 
