20170316 
This Assam cop’s works have bibliophiles across the world raving 
16-3-2017 
Tackling armed militants? Discussing literary genres with writers and publishers from across the world? This top cop is equally at ease at both.

Meet Kuladhar Saikia, a special director-general of police (law and order), based in Guwahati. A 1985-batch IPS officer, he is one of five Sahitya Akademi writers representing India at the London Book Fair, along with Arundhati Subramaniam, Yeshe Dorji Thongchi, SL Bhyrappa and B Jayamohan.

The 58-year-old spoke at a symposium about his ‘stream of consciousness’ style of writing that marks his 20 books in Assamese on the first day of the three-day event.

As the superintendent of police in militant hotbeds such as Nalbari, Kokrajhar and other districts, Saikia has been closely involved in anti-terror operations over the years, including Operation Bajrang and Operation Rhino against the United Liberation Front of Asom. And he believes these experiences find a reflection in his works.

“Writing makes you more sensitive to society, to people’s aspirations. We have been dealing with terrorism and militancy for decades; much of it is reflected in my writing. Dealing with people in their natural setting complements my writing and policing work,” Saikia told HT.

Winner of the Sahitya Akademi Award in 2015 for his book Akashar Chhabi Aru Anyanya Galpa, Saikia is keen that writings in less-known languages of the north-east are encouraged. He fears that unless the larger Indian communities and the government supports these languages, they may die out.

“I spoke about the writings in Assam and other north-eastern states. If we lose the less-spoken languages, we lose indigenous knowledge, lose cultures. There is a demand for literature in these languages with the development of a middle class,” he said.

The former Fulbright scholar has also made his mark on the social stage — his drive to curb witch-hunting in Assam has been recognised in a case study in the Harvard Business Review.

On Thursday, Saikia narrated his short story If A River at a book fair session titled ‘My World, My Writing’.

“People often ask me how I get the time to write. My simple answer is one can always find the time for one’s passion — when others go out and party, I sit down to write,” Saikia said.

The five Sahita Akademi writers are in London as part of the book fair’s ‘Spotlight on India’ series of events this year. The London Book Fair has collaborated with the Indian government’s export trade body Capexil to stage a presence over four pavilions for nearly 40 exhibitors.

Indian writers at the fair included Amit Chaudhuri and Shrabani Basu. The fair, which attracts a large number of writers and publishers from across the world, also saw a performance of the Kama Sutra Ballad, a session on accessing the Indian book market, and a celebration of the 60th anniversary of the National Book Trust of India. 
