20170317 
Live Cricket Score, India vs Australia 3rd Test Day 2: India look to break solid Australia stand 
17-3-2017 
Live Cricket Score, India vs Australia 3rd Test Day 2: India look to break solid stand against Australia. (Source: AP) Live Cricket Score, India vs Australia 3rd Test Day 2: India look to break solid stand against Australia. (Source: AP)

This series is proving one of the best in the home season for India. After two of the most intriguing matches, the Ranchi Test is once again proving to be a top one. After India won the first two sessions with the ball, Australia rode on century from captain Steve Smith and half-century from Glenn Maxwell to reach 299 for the loss of 4 wicket. India will be hoping Virat Kohli after he fell awkwardly on the field close to the boundary on Thursday

Live Cricket Score India vs Australia 3rd Test Day 1

0830 hrs IST: Hello and welcome to the coverage of the second day’s play from the third Test between India and Australia in Ranchi. Australia resume their innings at 299 for the loss of four wickets with Smith and Maxwell at the crease

India vs Australia 3rd Test Playing XI:

Murali Vijay, KL Rahul, Cheteshwar Pujara, Virat Kohli, Ajinkya Rahane, Karun Nair, Wriddhiman Saha, R Ashwin, Ravindra Jadeja, Umesh Yadav, Ishant Sharma

David Warner, Matt Renshaw, Steve Smith, Shaun Marsh, Peter Handscomb, Glenn Maxwell, Matthew Wade, Steve O’Keefe, Nathan Lyon, Pat Cummins, Josh Hazlewood

India vs Australia 3rd Test, Day 2: Reaction

R Sridhar: “It was probably the better batting day in the series so far. Pitch was nice and placid. It’s not that we are in the situation for the first time during this home season.” (Read what he had to say)

Matt Renshaw: “I think tomorrow first session is going to be one of the most crucial in this match. If we can win that session then we go a long way in winning the Test match” (Read what he had to say)

India vs Australia 3rd Test Day 2 Preview at Ranchi: The second day of the Ranchi Test will see Australia resume at 299 for the loss of 4 wickets. Steve Smith and Glenn Maxwell have stitched a good partnership for Australia and they will look to continue the good work. India bowlers will look to break the stand. They managed to take four wickets on first day but failed to pick any in the final session which allowed Australia to come back in the game

India vs Australia 3rd Test, Match Umpires

Ground Umpires: Chris Gaffaney and Ian Gould

Third Umpire: Nigel Llong

Match Referee: Sir Richie Richardson

For all the latest Sports News, download Indian Express App now

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd 
