20170317 
Live cricket score, India vs Australia, 3rd Test, Day 2: Maxwell eyes maiden ton 
17-3-2017 
Australia did well to conquer the pitch demons in their mind as the visitors played themselves to a relative position of strength by close of play on day 1 of the third Test in Ranchi on Thursday. That toss will play a key role in this Test is probably becoming clear. Glenn Maxwell marked his Test return with a workmanlike 82 and his 159-run stand with skipper Steve Smith put Virat Kohli’s India on the back foot. On a wicket with low bounce, can India make early inroads today? Catch live cricket score of India vs Australia Day 2 action here. (LIVE SCORECARD | WHERE TO SEE LIVE STREAMING)

8:45 hrs IST: Welcome to Day 2 of the third Test between India and Australia. Follow live updates from the gripping encounter here.

On Thursday, Steve Smith won an important toss and had little hesitation in batting first, something of a ritual on India’s low-bounce tracks.

Australia were reeling at 89 for three when Smith and Peter Handscomb (19), protagonists of the review controversy in Bangalore , joined forces for a half-century stand.

Umesh Yadav trapped Handscomb (19) lbw with an in-swinging yorker but Smith found an able partner in Glenn Maxwell, who eschewed his natural aggression, and played judiciously to justify his selection, replacing the injured Mitchell Marsh.

Known for his destructive batting which makes him a limited-overs asset, Maxwell showed tremendous self-restraint, taking 57 deliveries to hit his first boundary.

There were glimpses of his natural aggression as well, as when he hit Jadeja for the first of his two sixes to bring up his maiden Test half-century.

Glenn Maxwell surpassed in his very first innings of the series the 48 runs that Mitchell Marsh had totalled in his four during the first two Tests and the all-rounder is not done yet.

There were glimpses of his natural aggression as well, as when he hit Ravindra Jadeja for the first of his two sixes to bring up his maiden test half-century.

Maxwell surpassed in his very first innings of the series the 48 runs that Mitchell Marsh had totalled in his four during the first two Tests and the all-rounder is not done yet. 
