20170317 
BJP’s front runners for UP, Uttarakhand CMs, Dhoni fire scare: 10 stories to look out for 
17-3-2017 
The following stories are making the headlines today:

1) Trivendra Singh Rawat front runner for Uttarakhand CM post, Manoj Sinha in race to be UP’s CM

Trivendra Singh Rawat, a leader with RSS background, has emerged as the front-runner in the race for the coveted chief minister’s post in Uttarakhand. He is likely to be elected the leader of the BJP legislature party in the hill state today. BJP MLAs in Uttar Pradesh will meet on Saturday to elect their leader and who will take over as the chief minister. State BJP chief Keshav Prasad Maurya, Union minister Rajnath Singh, and Manoj Sinha are in contention.

Read the full story here.

2) MS Dhoni survives fire scare in Delhi

Cricketer MS Dhoni was rescued from a hotel fire in Dwarka at Delhi. He was staying there with his state cricket team for the Vijay Hazare Trophy in the Capital. The fire broke out on Friday morning in the ground floor lobby, when the team from Jharkhand, staying on the seventh floor, was about to depart hotel for the match against Bengal.

Read the full story here.

3) Maruti plant violence case: Punishment to be pronounced today

A court in Gurgaon will pronounce the punishment for the 31 workers who were convicted in the case dealing with the violence at the Maruti plant at Manesar in 2012. Thirteen have been held guilty of murder whereas 18 others were convicted of rioting and other crimes under various sections of the IPC.

4) Angela Merkel to meet Donald Trump in Washington

German Chancellor Angela Merkel heads to Washington to meet US President Donald Trump. It will be a keenly watched summit as the two leaders have previously disagreed on policy matters. They are expected to consolidate economic ties and discuss international issues such as US’ approach to Nato, the fight against ISIS and Russia’s policies towards Europe.

5) Pakistan wants Facebook, Twitter to help combat blasphemy

Pakistan has said that it has asked Facebook and Twitter to help it identify Pakistanis suspected of blasphemy so that it can prosecute them or pursue their extradition. Under Pakistan’s blasphemy laws, anyone found to have insulted Islam or the Prophet Muhammad can be sentenced to death. Interior minister Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan said that the government has approached the two social media companies on this matter. Facebook said it reviews all government requests carefully, “with the goal of protecting the privacy and rights of our users.” Twitter declined to comment.

Read the full story here.

6) After tweet insulting Trump, McDonald’s says it was hacked

McDonald’s says it has determined that its Twitter account was “hacked by an external source” after it sent a message calling Donald Trump “a disgusting excuse of a President.” The tweet to Trump on Thursday from the official account for McDonald’s Corp. has since been deleted but was captured in screenshots.

Read the full story here.

7) 5,000 nurses at AIIMS on mass casual leave

Nearly 5,000 nurses at the AIIMS went on mass casual leave on Friday, alleging the hospital administration of discrimination in the roll out of the Seventh Central Pay Commission. The nurses have demanded that they be given revision in their pay scales and a hike in allowances. The emergency services at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences would be affected. However, outpatient departments and other medical services will continue as usual.

Read the full story here.

8) Uttar Pradesh records India’s worst infant and under-five mortality rate

India’s most populous state has slid past Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh to record the country’s worst infant and under-five mortality rate, according to newly released health data. Ahead of the swearing in of a new government in UP, data released from the National Family Health Survey, 2015-16 (NFHS-4) show that India’s most populous state now also has India’s worst under-five mortality rate of 78 deaths per 1,000 live births which is comparable to that of Mozambique (79), an African nation with half of India’s gross domestic product (GDP) per capita.

Read the full story here.

9) Dalai Lama to inaugurate international Buddhist conference in Bihar

The Dalai Lama will inaugurate a three-day International Buddhist Conclave at Rajgir in Bihar. Delegates from 35 countries are expected to attend the conference. President Pranab Mukherjee will participate in the closing ceremony on Sunday.

10) Column: An Opposition in disarray must reinvent strategy to combat 24X7 politician like Modi

How then does a dispirited and fragmented Opposition combat a consummate politician like Modi? The Opposition needs to hold Modi accountable for his mistakes but end its blind hostility to any and every move of the central government. Modi’s opponents need to look beyond the 2002 Gujarat riots which only consolidates the BJP’s growing Hindu constituency. While the idea of a “mahagathbandhan” that brings together all anti-Modi forces may appear electorally attractive, it fails to realise that chemistry matters just as much as arithmetic in a highly-competitive political arena.

Read the full article here. 
