20170317 
Jat quota stir: Third meet ends on a ‘positive’ note, Jats to meet CM today 
17-3-2017 
All India Jat Arkashan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS) president Yashpal Malik will meet chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in Delhi on Friday after the third round of talks between protesting Jats and the government delegation remained “positive”.

“The talks on all seven demands were positive and now two-three members of the the Jat delegation will meet chief minister at 2pm on Friday in Delhi,” Yashpal Malik told HT after the meeting.

When asked if the Jat agitation, which started on January 29, will end after meeting with the chief minister, Malik said, “The agitation will end if chief minister accepts all seven demands being raised by the members of community.” “We will meet the chief minister tomorrow (Friday) and next decision will be announced after meeting him,” he added.

However, hinting at a breakthrough to end the impasse between the government and Jats, education minister Rambilas Sharma, who was leading the government delegation said, “The talks were positive and we have reached an agreement over some demands. Chief minister will now meet the delegation on Friday.” “There is a possibility that the agitation will end soon,” he said, adding that all Haryanvis should live with peace and harmony.

The meeting between 150 members of the Jat community and the eight-member government delegation lasted for an approximate five hours at the guest house of Panipat refinery as the government seems soft to persuade the protesting Jats, who have threatened to gherao parliament on Delhi 20.

Meanwhile, sources said the talks were positive and there is a possibility that the protest may end on Friday and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Yashpal Malik may address a joint press conference after the meeting.

According to sources, withdrawal of pending cases and release of Jats, arrested for their involvement in last year’s violence was the main demand raised by the Jat delegation during the meeting.

Besides the release of those jailed during last year’s agitation, withdrawal of cases slapped during the protest and demand of government jobs for kin of those killed and injured while taking part in the stir, the Jats are demanding for filing of a time-bound application in the Supreme Court to provide reservation to Jats and other five communities.

They also demanded that the government should take steps to include reservation to Jats and other five communities in the 9th Schedule of the Constitution to prevent legal wrangles.

As per sources, the government was ready to accept most of the demands but the delegation expressed helplessness to withdraw the pending cases registered under Section 307 and 302 of the Indian Penal Code and cases being investigated by the CBI.

This was the third meeting between the members of the Jat community and government delegation. Earlier, two meetings, held on February 11 and 20 at the same venue, remained inconclusive. After the second meeting, All India Jat Arkashan Sngharsh Smitit president Yashpal Malik refused to hold further talks with the five-member government delegation, which was led by chief secretary DS Dhesi, saying the delegation was toothless. A day before the third meeting the government added three non-Jat leaders into the delegation, including education minister Rambilas Sharma, minister of state Krishan Bedi and chief parliamentary secretary Kamal Gupta. 
