20170317 
Missing Delhi clerics may have been kidnapped by militants in Pakistan: Officials 
17-3-2017 
There are fears that two senior clerics linked to Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin dargah, who have been reported missing in Pakistan, may have been kidnapped by a militant group or taken into custody by intelligence agencies.

The clerics - Asif Nizami, 82, and Nazim Ali Nizami, 66 – are members of the extended family of the Sajjada Nashin (hereditary administrator) of the shrine in Delhi. They were reported missing on Thursday after their families were unable to contact them in Pakistan, where they had for a pilgrimage.

There was official silence on the issue but law enforcement officials said the two men may either have been kidnapped by a militant group or taken into custody by intelligence agencies. No further details were immediately available.

The clerics had travelled to Pakistan with the intention of visiting the dargah of Khwaja Fariduddin Masud Ganjshakar, popularly known as Baba Farid, at Pakpattan, about 160 km from Lahore.

Family members said they were last in Lahore before they disappeared. The clerics also shared photos with their relatives on WhatsApp that apparently showed them at the Data Darbar shrine in Lahore.

In a series of tweets, external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj said the matter had been taken up with the Pakistan government, which had been asked to give an update on the whereabouts of the clerics.

We have taken up this matter with Government of Pakistan and requested them for an update on both the Indian nationals in Pakistan./4 — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) March 17, 2017

Swaraj said the duo went missing after arriving in Karachi.

However, there has been some confusion on whether the clerics went missing in Lahore or Karachi.

Pakistan’s Foreign Office spokesman Nafees Zakaria told the media that an Indian request for assistance for recovering the clerics had been received. He said the request had been forwarded to the interior ministry, which is “actively pursuing the matter”.

Asif Nizami’s family said the clerics left for Pakistan on March 6 and had their return flight scheduled on Thursday, which they failed to make.

“My father was visiting Pakistan after 35 years. Since he is old, Nazim went along with him. We last spoke to them at 4 pm on Wednesday, when they had visited Baba Farid’s dargah,” said Amir, the son of Asif Nizami.

They were supposed to travel to Karachi from Lahore. Asif Nizami’s sister lives in Karachi and he was going to meet her.

“We will try to meet the Union home minister and the external affairs minister,” said a relative. 
