20170317 
President Mukherjee praises PM Modi, stresses need to guard against ‘majoritarianism’ 
17-3-2017 
President Pranab Mukherjee on Friday stressed on the need to guard against “majoritarianism”, saying those in power must take the entire nation along at all times. He also praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his “quick learning”.

“Consultation and consensus is the best and often the only way forward,” he said while lauding the speech of Prime Minister Narendra Modi after BJP scored landslide victories in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.

“In a Parliamentary democracy, we must always guard against majoritarianism. Those in power must involve and take the entire nation along with them at all times,” Mukherjee said in his speech at a conclave organised by India Toady in Mumbai.

Appreciating Modi’s felicitation speech following the resounding win, he said, “I was extremely happy to hear Prime Minister Modi speak about the need for humility in the aftermath of his party’s victory in recent elections to Uttar Pradesh and other state assemblies.

“He asserted that while electoral verdicts are determined on the basis of ‘Bahumat’ (majority), the states will be governed on the principle of ‘Sarvamat’ (consensus). This is indeed India’s tradition and what the large majority of our people desire to see in action.”

The President also praised the PM, saying he was impressed with Modi’s way of dealing with things and his quick learning.

“He (Modi) has his own way of dealing with things and I must give him credit how quickly he picked up,” Mukherjee said.

“Every other Prime Minister from Charan Singh to Chandra Shekhar, all of them had profound experience in Parliament. But a man coming straight from a provincial government and acquiring mastery over foreign relations, complicated external economy... speaks volume of him,” Mukherjee said.

He mentioned how Prime Minister Modi was deftly handling the “informal but powerful” G-20 group that deals with “major issues of international finance, trade, sanctions”. 
