20170317 
Favour seekers in Bihar question leak case revealed 
17-3-2017 
The Bihar staff selection commission (BSSC) recruitment exam question leak case took a new turn on Friday, with the names of many influential persons coming into the widening probe ambit.

The police stumbled upon the names of several ministers, MLAs, former MPs, IAS and police officers, among others, in the recovered call data record of jailed secretary of the commission, Parmeshwar Ram.

BSSC chairman Sudhir Kumar and 33 others are already been in jail in connection with the question leak. However, the latest revelations, related mostly to the recruitment of auxiliary nurses by the BSSC, are set to raise the political temperature in Bihar.

“The names of those who were constantly in touch with Parmeshwar Ram to seek favour for their wards came to light after the police recovered the CDR of Ram, which the latter had tried to delete before his arrest,” said a police officer.

IAS officers are already on the boil over the arrest of their colleague, IAS officer Kumar, and have been demanding a CBI probe into the entire episode. But the government has remained firm on its stand that there would be no interference in police investigations.

A highly placed police officer said the names figuring on the CDR of Ram were virtually a who’s who of influential persons from all sections of the society. “A station house officer (SHO) sought favour from Ram for recruitment of an ANM, as did senior officers and politicians,” he added.

Patna SSP Manu Maharaj said that the report from the forensic science laboratory has been obtained and all the deleted data recovered. “The favours sought are mostly for appointment of ANMs, though the recruitment exercise is underway and this is not part of the current investigation. But if an inquiry is ordered into it, it could be taken up,” he added.

Both Sudhir Kumar and Parmeshwar Ram had also admitted to the media that they used to get calls from influential people seeking favours for their wards. 
