20170317 
Emotional Glenn Maxwell says he doubted whether he would play Tests again 
17-3-2017 
Relieved at getting his maiden Test century in Ranchi, Glenn Maxwell revealed he once doubted if he would ever play Test cricket again. “I got pretty low, that’s for sure,” said Maxwell about last year not working out great for him despite a T20 ton against Sri Lanka. (India vs Australia, day 2 blog)

“I was in a place where I doubted whether I would play Test cricket again, whether I would have a chance to put the cap back on. I just did everything I could, on and off the field. I tried changes in technique and numerous discussions with lot of people and tried staying aloof as much I could, kept on asking questions and change people’s perception about what Maxwell was doing,” said Maxwell after the close of second day’s play. (India vs Australia day 2 scorecard)

Pegged as good for only shorter formats, this was one opportunity for Maxwell to prove his worth after Mitchell Marsh was ruled out due to injury.

“To get back in the side in the first place was something that I really held close to my heart. I was so happy to be able to walk back on the field with the Australian Test team with the Baggy Green cap on and I was so filled with joy when I got told I had the opportunity to do that again. I didn’t want to make it my last Test, that’s for sure. I know how bad it felt when I played that last game in Dubai (Abu Dhabi actually) and didn’t play again,” said Maxwell.

The outpour of emotion when Maxwell finally reached his century on Friday was only natural. “It was probably the emotions of the whole night I had as well. You go to sleep 82 not out, you’ve just put on 150 with the skipper, I thought about it all night.

“I went through about 300 to 400 different scenarios that could’ve happened the today. Most of them weren’t good. So much emotion came out as soon as I got that hundred. Even thinking about it now I’ve got a frog in my throat. It’s as special a moment as I’ve had in my career and hopefully it’s not the last.”

This is only his fourth Test but Maxwell insists he belongs here. And he is happy that he finally has a century to show he is not all talk. “I have spoken a lot about red-ball cricket in a lot of interviews that I have done. I have spoken at length about how I have always felt like red-ball cricket is my best format. To be able to show that at Test level is something I’m extremely proud of. And yes I can finally almost show people with a result instead of just talking,” he said. 
