20170318 
Uttarakhand CM swearing-in highlights: Trivendra Singh Rawat takes oath of office 
18-3-2017 
Trivendra Singh Rawat takes oath as the 9th Chief Minister of Uttarakhand. (Source: ANI Photo) Trivendra Singh Rawat takes oath as the 9th Chief Minister of Uttarakhand. (Source: ANI Photo)

BJP’s Trivendra Singh Rawat has taken oath as the next chief minister of Uttarakhand. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP president Amit Shah attended the swearing-in ceremony which was held in Dehradun today. 56-year-old Rawat, who has been elected for the third time from the the Doiwala assembly seat in the state, was chosen as CM-designate after a meeting with the party MLAs and central observers Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Saroj Pandey and state in-charge Shyam Jaju Friday.

This ends our coverage of Trivendra Singh Rawat’s swearing-in in Dehradun, Uttarakhand. For more news on Uttarakhand, click here.

Here are highlights from Trivendra Singh Rawat’s swearing-in ceremony in Dehradun

3.40 pm: After the ceremony, PM Modi tweets, “Will return the tremendous affection shown by the people of the state with record development.”

Congratulations to Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat & the entire team sworn in today. Am sure they will work hard & fulfil people’s aspirations. — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) March 18, 2017

The new Uttarakhand government will return the tremendous affection shown by the people of the state with record development. — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) March 18, 2017

3.30 pm: Dhan Singh Rawat and Congress rebel Rekha Arya are the two ministers of state inducted into the cabinet.

3.19 pm: BJP’s Uttarakhand in-charge Jaju told The Indian Express that Rawat will hold a meeting with other party leaders and decide the portfolio of ministers.

The swearing-in ceremony of Trivendra Singh Rawat in Dehradun. (Source: Ashutosh Bharadwaj) The swearing-in ceremony of Trivendra Singh Rawat in Dehradun. (Source: Ashutosh Bharadwaj)

3.17 pm: Union ministers Thaawar Chand Gehlot and VK Singh are also present.

3.16 pm: Apart from Maharaj and Rawat, Subodh Uniyal and Yashpal Arya are the other former Congress ministers in the cabinet.

3.15 pm: Harak Singh Rawat takes oath, he is former Congress man.

3.14 pm: Prakash Pant, Arvind Pandey, Madan Kaushik are some of the other minister.

3.12 pm: Satpal Maharaj takes oath as minister.

3.11 pm: Seven ministers are taking oath; four of whom are Congress rebels.

3.10 pm: Trivendra Singh Rawat has been sworn in as the 9th Chief Minister of the hill-state.

3.05 pm: From the BJP camp, senior leaders Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, JP Nadda and Uma Bharti have arrived and taken their seats for the oath-taking ceremony.

2.55 pm: Former Congress chief minister Harish Rawat has come to attend the swearing-in ceremony.

Harish Rawat is also present at the swearing-in ceremony. (Source: ANI Photo) Harish Rawat is also present at the swearing-in ceremony. (Source: ANI Photo)

2.50 pm: According to sources, Prakash Pant, Dhan Singh Rawat, Madan Kaushik and Khajan Dass may be inducted into Rawat’s new cabinet, along with Congress rebels, Harak Singh Rawat and Yashpal Arya. Satpal Maharaj, we believe, is pushing for a cabinet berth for his wife Amrita Rawat.

2.45 pm: PM Modi has arrived in Dehradun to attend Rawat’s swearing-in.

PM Modi arrives in Dehradun to attend Rawat’s swearing-in ceremony. (Source: PMO India/Twitter) PM Modi arrives in Dehradun to attend Rawat’s swearing-in ceremony. (Source: PMO India/Twitter)

2.35 pm: Rawat has a post-graduate degree in History and a diploma in Journalism from the Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University. According to his election affidavit, there are no criminal charges against him and he has assets over Rs one crore.

You can read more about Rawat here.

2.30 pm: Rawat is expected to be sworn in at 3 pm in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP president Amit Shah and senior leader JP Nadda.

2.20 pm: On Friday, Rawat had met Uttarakhand Governor K K Paul to formally stake claim to form the government. He was accompanied by state BJP chief Ajay Bhatt and several MLAs. Here is a photograph from the event.

BJP legislature party leader Trivendra Singh Rawat meeting Uttarakhand Governor KK Paul to stake claim for forming the government in the State in Dehradun on Friday. (Source: PTI Photo) BJP legislature party leader Trivendra Singh Rawat meeting Uttarakhand Governor KK Paul to stake claim for forming the government in the State in Dehradun on Friday. (Source: PTI Photo)

2.10 pm: After being elected as leader of BJP’s legislature party in Uttarakhand, Trivendra Singh Rawat announced his priorities for the state. “I am grateful that the BJP legislature party has given me this responsibility. Ours will be a corruption-free government. Poverty eradication will be our top priority,” said Rawat.

2.00 pm: Rawat, who had been an RSS activist from 1983 to 2002, is also in-charge of BJP’s Jharkhand unit. It has also been learnt that he is close to BJP President Amit Shah.

For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App now

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd 
