20170318 
Agra blasts: Twin low-intensity explosions near Cantt railway station, no injuries reported 
18-3-2017 
No injuries have been reported as police have cordoned off the spot and senior police officials have inspected the area. (Source: ANI) No injuries have been reported as police have cordoned off the spot and senior police officials have inspected the area. (Source: ANI)

Two low-intensity explosions took place in the vicinity of Agra Cantt. railway station on Saturday. The cause of the blasts is yet to be ascertained. According to news agency ANI, one blast occurred in a garbage dumping tractor while the other on the terrace of a house, which was adjacent to the railway station. No injuries have been reported as police have cordoned off the spot and senior police officials have inspected the area. Forensic teams and dog squads have also reached the spot.

The incident happened just hours after Andaman Express crashed into a huge boulder on the tracks near another station 20 kms away and police recovered a note at the site threatening of terror attacks.

“Two explosions were heard early today. The UP police has taken over and now forensic investigations are being done to determine the cause,” Divisional Railway Manager Prabhash Kumar was quoted as saying by PTI.

A note threatening terror attacks was found near Bhandai railway station, 20 kms away, by police after a major mishap was averted when the alert train driver of Andaman Express from Chennai to Jammu saw a huge boulder on

the tracks last evening.

Security has been enhanced at the Taj Mahal after reports sounded an alert of a possible threat to the 17th century world heritage monument from the terror outfit ISIS. Police had increased patrolling and mounted an extra vigil near the Yamuna river yesterday.

A note threatening terror attacks was found near Bhandai railway station, 20 kms away, by police after a major mishap was averted when the alert train driver of Andaman Express from Chennai to Jammu saw a huge boulder on

the tracks.

With inputs from PTI, ANI

For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App now

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd 
