20170318 
Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath LIVE updates: Congress hopes BJP will fulfil poll promises 
18-3-2017 
Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath LIVE updates: Yogi Adityanath elected leader of the BJP Legislature Party in Lucknow on Saturday. (PTI Photo/Nand kumar) Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath LIVE updates: Yogi Adityanath elected leader of the BJP Legislature Party in Lucknow on Saturday. (PTI Photo/Nand kumar)

Yogi Adityanath was named the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister designate at a meeting of newly-elected MLAs of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), 312 in total, in Lucknow Saturday. Keshav Maurya and Dinesh Sharma will be his two deputy CMs. Adityanath, Maurya and Sharma will be sworn in tomorrow, at 2.15 pm. They are also expected to address the media on Sunday.

Read | Who is Yogi Adityanath?

Uttar Pradesh LIVE updates:

10.00 pm: Deputy chief minister designate Dinesh Sharma tells ANI he wants to bring good governance in Uttar Pradesh, and that he will work for the poor.

9.40 pm: Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah has just sarcastically tweeted to Mehbooba Mufti, the current CM. He has congratulated her for picking friends and allies who have chosen a CM who once before called for the dead bodies of Muslim women to be raped.

“Do you still want to try and fool the people of Kashmir, especially those who trusted you in 2014, that a new Vajpayee like era is starting?” He asks.

They say a person is known by the company they keep & while you can’t choose your relatives you can choose your friends. Well chosen slow 👏🏻 — Omar Abdullah (@abdullah_omar) March 18, 2017

His rant goes on…

Today 18% (or there about) of the population of India’s most populous state must be terrified of what the future has in store for them. — Omar Abdullah (@abdullah_omar) March 18, 2017

9.25 pm: On a side note, Yogi Adityanath has on several occasions in the past courted controversy. To name a couple of instances, in 2015 he comparing Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan to Pakistani terrorist Hafiz Saeed during the intolerance debate and once asked people to leave India if they didn’t practice Surya Namaskar.

9.10 pm: Samajwadi Party’s Azam Khan speaks to ANI.

Loktantra mein faislo ka samman hona chahiye.Jo party jeeti ye uska mamla hai ki wo CM kise banaye-Azam Khan on CM designate Yogi Adityanath pic.twitter.com/kdPtl5M4yU — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) March 18, 2017

8.55 pm: The Congress has reacted to Adityanath’s appointment, wishing the new government well. “We sincerely hope that BJP Govt in U.P will now rise above rival claims & counter claims for share of power and concentrate upon fulfilling the promises made to people.” The party lists some of the promises made by the BJP to the people, including loans to farmers, reducing electricity tariff, creating jobs for the youth etc.

Part of the statement put out by its chief spokesperson on Twitter, Randeep S Surjewala‏, says, “Excessive delay in arriving at the decision as also the compulsion to create two posts as deputy chief ministers reflects a bitter conflict to share spoils of power despite overwhelming majority of over 300 MLAs.”

8.37 pm: Leaders from other parties took to Twitter too Saturday to express their feelings on the new development in Uttar Pradesh. Swaraj Abhiyan party leader Yogendra Yadav, for instance, said people like Yogi Adityanath should not hold any constitutional post.

For more political reactions, click here.

8.36 pm: Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports Vijay Goel also expressed his best wishes to the elected CM and deputy CMs on Twitter. He said:

UP के मुख्यमंत्री चुने जाने पर @yogi_adityanath जी को बधाई,साथ ही @kpmaurya1 जी एवं @drdineshbjp को उप-मुख्यमंत्री चुने जाने पर शुभकामनाएं pic.twitter.com/QtRnyGpAnS — Vijay Goel (@VijayGoelBJP) March 18, 2017

8.34 pm: Taking to Twitter, Minister of State (Independent Charge) of Power Piyush Goyal congratulated the CM designate, and said UP, under his leadership will touch new heights.

उत्तर प्रदेश के मुख्यमंत्री के रूप में चयनित होने के लिये @yogi_adityanath जी को बधाई, आपके नेतृत्व में राज्य विकास की ऊंचाईयों को छुएगा। pic.twitter.com/LFvL5ysdoe — Piyush Goyal (@PiyushGoyal) March 18, 2017

8.32 pm: PM Modi ke Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas ke slogan ke sath UP mein vikas, sushashan ki sthapna karne mein safal honge: Adityanath tells ANI after meeting Governor Ram Naik in Lucknow.

8.30 pm: CM designate Yogi Adityanath meets Governor Ram Naik in Lucknow and stakes claim to form the government.

Yogi Adityanath stakes claim to form the government in Uttar Pradesh. (Source: ANI Photo) Yogi Adityanath stakes claim to form the government in Uttar Pradesh. (Source: ANI Photo)

8.10 pm: Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP chief Amit Shah are expected to attend the swearing-in ceremony tomorrow in Lucknow.

7.58 pm: Meanwhile, across the state, people are celebrating the news of the new BJP chief minister. Adityanath’s supporters in Gorakhpur are rejoicing by bursting firecrackers and shouting slogans in delight. In Varanasi, ANI visuals show supporters beating drums.

7.51 pm: Chief Minister Designate Yogi Adityanath has reached the Raj Bhawan in Lucknow where he will meet the Governor to stake claim to government.

7.50 pm: Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Raman Singh congratulates Yogi Adityanath. He tells ANI, “Congratulate Yogi Adityanath, hope under him Uttar Pradesh will reach new heights of development.”

07. 25 pm: According to ANI reports, UP CM designate Yogi Adityanath and the deputy CMs will address media tomorrow, says Venkaiah Naidu.

Yogi Adityanath and the deputy CMs will be sworn-in tomorrow in Lucknow (ANI Photo) Yogi Adityanath and the deputy CMs will be sworn-in tomorrow in Lucknow (ANI Photo)

07. 22 pm: Our main agenda will be vikas, vikas, vikas (development) and good governance: Venkaiah Naidu

07. 20 pm: Oath taking ceremony of Yogi Adityanath and Deputy CMs will take place at 2:15 pm tomorrow in UP, PM Modi and Amit Shah to also remain present: Venkaiah Naidu

07. 19 pm: Since Uttar Pradesh is one of the most populous states, Yogi Adityanath has asked us to appoint two deputy chief ministers and therefore we have appointed Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma for the respective post: Venkaiah Naidu

07. 11 pm: BJP’s press conference in Lucknow, Yogi Adityanath to take oath as UP CM tomorrow, Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma deputy CMs

BJP’s press conference in Lucknow, Yogi Adityanath to take oath as UP CM tomorrow,Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma deputy CMs pic.twitter.com/CKuMUhlQNg — ANI (@ANI_news) March 18, 2017

7.05 pm: The swearing-in ceremony for Yogi Adityanath, Maurya and Sharma will be held tomorrow, March 19.

6.58 pm: Keshav Maurya and Dinesh Sharma have been named the two deputy CMs.

6.55 pm: After the close race, Yogi Adityanath has been chosen as the next chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. Remember, the BJP is coming to power in the state after a period of 15 years.

#WATCH Yogi Adityanath chosen as Uttar Pradesh BJP legislature party leader pic.twitter.com/OPnuON4BTg — ANI (@ANI_news) March 18, 2017

6.50 pm: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan congratulates Yogi Adityanath on Twitter.

श्री @yogi_adityanath, आपके कुशल नेतृत्व क्षमता का यूपी को पूर्ण लाभ मिलेगा। आपकी अगुआई में उत्तर प्रदेश शीघ्र ही उत्तम प्रदेश बन जायेगा। — ShivrajSingh Chouhan (@ChouhanShivraj) March 18, 2017

6.30 pm: The news of Yogi Adityanath being named the CM designate is not official yet. ANI puts out a new tweet saying, “News of Yogi Adityanath being chosen as CM designate for UP is based on sources; No official announcement yet.”

This is based on sources. This is NOT an official announcement. We at ANI have jumped the gun. http://t.co/UDu86dPY9P — Smita Prakash (@smitaprakash) March 18, 2017

6:10 pm: Yogi Adityanath named chief minister designate, tweets ANI.

5.58 pm: According to ANI’s sources, slogans are being raised in the meeting in favour of Yogi Adityanath becoming the chief minister. Dinesh Sharma’s name for Deputy CM is being discussed.

5.52 pm: The meeting is now underway in Lucknow.

5.50 pm: Yogi Adityanath arrives at the venue of the meeting amid speculations that he will become the chief minister, reports PTI.

5.20 pm: BJP leaders Yogi Adityanath, Bhupendra Yadav, Om Mathur, Keshav Prasad Maurya and Sunil Bansal held a separate meeting before the BJP MLAs meet, ANI reports.

4.45 pm: Various TV channels are now announcing Yogi Adityanath as leading the race for UP CM, while Keshav Prasad Maurya and Manoj Sinha may be appointed his deputy CMs.

4.40 pm: In other news, chief secretary Rahul Bhatnagar has issued a circular to government employees to be punctual to work from March 20. The circular asks employees to finish their work on time and warns that action will be taken against those who fail to comply.

“The formation of the new government in Uttar Pradesh is happening soon. The government policies and resolutions have to be fulfilled on time,” it states.

4.35 pm: Maurya and Om Mathur have arrived at the Lucknow airport, NewsX reports.

4.25 pm: If you’re just joining us, BJP MLAs are arriving for the party legislature meeting in Lucknow to elect a new leader. Top picks for the post include Manoj Sinha, Rajnath Singh, BJP state president Keshav Prasad Maurya and Gorakhpur MP Yogi Adityanath.

3:55 pm: So Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu is in Mumbai inaugurating a number of projects and flagging off trains. Manoj Sinha, who is MoS Railways, is absent. So does this mean Sinha is going to Lucknow as CM?

3:40 pm: Manoj Sinha is leaving for Lucknow by chartered plane from Varanasi instead of going to Delhi, Times of India is reporting.

3:37 pm: So our readers have spoken. After nearly 2000 votes, our readers think Manoj Sinha is better placed to get the CM job. Rajnath, Maurya and Adityanath all are in contention for second spot. They have 200 votes each.

3:20 pm: There are reports of Yogi Adityanath flying into Delhi sparking further speculation. Additionally, there is no clarity on who would be inducted as ministers.

3:0o pm: BJP workers are assembling in major towns to celebrate the CM candidate announcement.

2:55 pm: RSS is said to be in talks with BJP president Amit Shah on the decision of CM candidate.

2:48 pm: Preparations are in full swing at the Smriti Upvan in Lucknow where the swearing-in function will take place tomorrow.

Express photo by Vishal Srivastav Express photo by Vishal Srivastav

2:45 pm: There are now reports coming that there will be two deputy chief ministers. Obviously, unconfirmed.

2:25 pm: Supporters of Keshav Prasad Maurya in Lucknow.

Express photo by Vishal Srivastav Express photo by Vishal Srivastav

2:20 pm: A man sitting in front of a BJP billboard in Lucknow.

Express photo by Vishal Srivastav Express photo by Vishal Srivastav

1:45 pm: It is being said that Sinha’s ‘Bhumihar’ background will help the party in Bihar where the community has a bigger base.

1:25 pm: Sinha is being referred to as a ‘silent performer’ – one of the key attributes that supports his possible ascension to the chief minister’s chair. He was included by India Today magazine as one among 7 most honest members of Parliament.

12:55 pm: IANS is reporting that Manoj Sinha is ‘almost’ certain to be the CM. Many say only Amit Shah and PM Modi knows the name. So its kind of futile to speculate.

12:36 pm: Here’s a poll for all our readers. Vote and let us know what you think.

12:35 pm: A relatively lesser-known leader cannot be ruled out in the state. In fact, the party has a history of doing that in states of Haryana, Gujarat and Jharkhand.

12:30 pm: Maurya’s supporters are also holding demonstration to demand him as CM candidate.

Lucknow: UP BJP Chief Keshav Prasa Maurya’s supporters stage demonstration demanding that Maurya be made the CM of UP pic.twitter.com/qwAR0WsJTl — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) March 18, 2017

12:28 pm: Is Manoj Sinha’s name being hurled to mislead the media? So far, he has said that he is not in the race. Earlier today, he offered prayers at the Kashi Vishwanath and the Kaal Bhairav temples in Varanasi.

12:25 pm: By the way, supporters of Gorakhpur MP Yogi Adityanath are demanding his as chief minister. They are protesting in Lucknow.

12:22 pm: Is it infighting that’s troubling the BJP to come up with a name? Or is it caste calculations roiling the party? Time is ticking nevertheless.

12 noon: Welcome to the live blog where we get you up to speed on all the live action happening in New Delhi and Lucknow around the naming of the CM candidate in Uttar Pradesh. Remember, in the recently-concluded elections, the BJP romped home winning 312 seats out of the state’s 403 seats. The SP-Congress alliance and the BSP tasted defeat.

While the BJP has named its CM candidate in neighbouring Uttarakhand, it has so far not announced its choice in UP. Some of the names doing the rounds are union ministers Rajnath Singh, Manoj Sinha, BJP state president Keshav Prasad Maurya and Gorakhpur MP Yogi Adityanath.

For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App now

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd 
