20170318 
Glenn Maxwell mocks Virat Kohli as his batting woes continue, watch video 
18-3-2017 
Australian players celebrated the prized wicket of Virat Kohli who once again fell cheaply. (Source: Reuters) Australian players celebrated the prized wicket of Virat Kohli who once again fell cheaply. (Source: Reuters)

Virat Kohli came into the Australia Test series in quite possibly the form of his life. Whenever he took to the middle, big runs were expected and delivered. Four double tons in back-to-back series and highest aggregate score in a domestic season were achieved as the top statistical highlight. But that has all but fizzled out and can be a forgotten achievement. Ever since Australia descended on India, the skipper’s Midas Touch has gone missing if you will. He had scored 40 runs in the first two Tests and that statistic didn’t improve all that much after the third day’s play in Ranchi.

As Virat Kohli tried to drive forward to a Pat Cummins delivery, he got a thick outside edge which flew to his counterpart Steve Smith at second slip who clung on to it. A wide half-volley drive attempt by Kohli without any foot movement hurt him and he was made to walk back after just six runs. With that, Kohli has scored just 46 runs in five innings at a miserable average of 9.20.

The dismissal is eerily similar to how he got out in the first innings on the opening Test in Pune. There he tried to drive a full delivery outside off to Mitchell Starc but handed Peter Handscomb the take at first slip.

A ball prior to Kohli’s dismissal which Cheteshwar Pujara played for three runs, Glenn Maxwell jokingly mocked the Kohli injury as well. Played into the same region as that which brought about the Kohli injury, Maxwell fielded and landed on his shoulder. Thankfully, the Aussie making a comeback had no injury concerns to deal with.

Kohli and Smith are not exactly on perfect terms after the DRS controversy marring the latter stages of the second Test which India won. Thereafter, Kohli had stopped short of calling Smith a ‘cheat’ and the controversy was cleared away from the pitch with both cricket boards deciding not to press the matter any further.

For all the latest Sports News, download Indian Express App now

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd 
