20170318 
Yogi Adityanath to take oath as CM of UP: Here’s how politicians reacted on Twitter 
18-3-2017 
Lucknow: BJP’s Yogi Adityanath (C) elected leader of the BJP Legislature Party (Chief Minister Uttar Pradesh) K P Muriya (L Deputy CM) and Dinesh Sharma (R Deputy CM) showing victory sign after the meeting in Lucknow on Saturday.PTI Photo Lucknow: BJP’s Yogi Adityanath (C) elected leader of the BJP Legislature Party (Chief Minister Uttar Pradesh) K P Muriya (L Deputy CM) and Dinesh Sharma (R Deputy CM) showing victory sign after the meeting in Lucknow on Saturday.PTI Photo

After all the speculations on the possible Chief Minister candidate for UP, the BJP on Saturday finally designated the chair to Yogi Adityanath. The 44-year old Lok Sabha member from Gorakhpur has been declared as the 32nd CM of Uttar Pradesh. The other front-runners for the party were Keshav Prasad Maurya and Manoj Sinha. A large crowd assembled in major towns to celebrate the CM candidate announcement.

Yogi Adityanath who is believed to have a staunch Hindutva ideology will be sworn in on Sunday at 5 pm in Lucknow. Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma will be the deputy CMs of the state. PM Modi and BJP President Amit Shah will along with other BJP leaders will be present for the swaring in.

Yogi Adityanath who has made anti-muslim statements in he past is also the head priest of the Gorakhnath temple in the eastern UP city. His inflammatory speeches also led to arrests and riots in the state. The BJP won clear majority in the state securing 312 seats in 403 member house for which the firebrand leader Yogi Adiyanath was closely campaigning after PM Narendra Modi.

Leaders have been congradulating Yogi Adityanath on twitter. Minister of State Piyush Goyal tweeted saying UP under the leadership of Yogi Adityanath will touch hieghts.

उत्तर प्रदेश के मुख्यमंत्री के रूप में चयनित होने के लिये @yogi_adityanath जी को बधाई, आपके नेतृत्व में राज्य विकास की ऊंचाईयों को छुएगा। pic.twitter.com/LFvL5ysdoe — Piyush Goyal (@PiyushGoyal) March 18, 2017

Minister of Youth affairs and sports Vijay Goel also expressed his best wishes to the elected CM and deputy CMs.

UP के मुख्यमंत्री चुने जाने पर @yogi_adityanath जी को बधाई,साथ ही @kpmaurya1 जी एवं @drdineshbjp को उप-मुख्यमंत्री चुने जाने पर शुभकामनाएं pic.twitter.com/QtRnyGpAnS — Vijay Goel (@VijayGoelBJP) March 18, 2017

Social worker Tarun Vijay thanked PM Modi for declaring Yogi Adityanath as the CM of UP.

Million thanks @narendramodi @AmitShah for gvng perfect leaders @UP and UK.It boosted morale of patriotic forces. Unapologetic Bharatiyata — Tarun Vijay (@Tarunvijay) March 18, 2017

Minister of science Dr. Harsh Vardhan expressed massive support to the selected CM by BJP

Congratulations to #YogiAdityanath ji on becoming the CM of Uttar Pradesh. Wave of joy and jubilation in the state, massive public support ✨ pic.twitter.com/8BNmSHMJDw — Dr. Harsh Vardhan (@drharshvardhan) March 18, 2017

Madhya Pradesh CM, Shivraj Singh Chauhan congratulated Yogi Adityanath and assured that UP will be benefited by his guidance and leadership.

श्री @yogi_adityanath, आपके कुशल नेतृत्व क्षमता का यूपी को पूर्ण लाभ मिलेगा। आपकी अगुआई में उत्तर प्रदेश शीघ्र ही उत्तम प्रदेश बन जायेगा। — ShivrajSingh Chouhan (@ChouhanShivraj) March 18, 2017

While there were many praises for BJP’s CM candidate, other political leader were disheartened to hear the announcement. Swaraj Abhiyan party leader Yogendra Yadav tweeted saying that people like Yogi Adityanath should not hold any constitutional post.

Should such persons hold any constitutional post?

Please watch and decide. http://t.co/40E2bmcGqa — Yogendra Yadav (@_YogendraYadav) March 18, 2017

Omar Abdullah reacted on twitter saying BJP spokesperson should stop asserting that RSS is only a social organisation.

Can the spokespersons of the BJP now put to rest their oft repeated assertion that the RSS is only a social organisation? — Omar Abdullah (@abdullah_omar) March 18, 2017

For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App now

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd 
