20170318 
Did Glenn Maxwell mock Virat Kohli during India vs Australia Ranchi Test? 
18-3-2017 
The ongoing India-Australia Test series has seen enough bad blood. Terms like ‘brain-fade’, ‘monkey-face’ have become synonymous with the series. And another such event might have happened on the third day of the third Test between India cricket team and Australia cricket team in Ranchi. (Day 3 Highlights)

This time India captain Virat Kohli might have been the target of mockery from Australia’s centurion, Glenn Maxwell. (Scorecard)

On the opening day, Kohli left the field in pain, clutching his right shoulder, after he dived while fielding at mid-on. Later, scans revealed he had suffered a strain and did not field on Day 2.

Maxwell’s dive

Maxwell, who had struck a brilliant hundred on Friday, was seen clutching his right shoulder on Saturday after a dive to save a boundary in the 81st overs. There was a broad smile on his face too.

Read more | Murali Vijay’s versatility adds steel to India’s opening gambit vs Australia

So, was he mocking Kohli’s injury by mimicking the Indian skipper’s action?

Image 1: Virat Kohli on day one

Image 2: Glenn Maxwell taking the mickey on day three https://t.co/6PZpc6Lzji #INDvAUS pic.twitter.com/d583Y7NNpq — FOX SPORTS Cricket (@FOXCricketLive) March 18, 2017

Cheteshwar Pujara had played a fine flick through the mid-on off Pat Cummins and Maxwell gave a fine chase at the deep, exactly in the same region where Kohli attempted an awkward dive to injure his right shoulder in the post-lunch session of Day 1.

Past instance

In the past, Indian players have also been guilty of making fun of rival players’ injury. During an ODI between India and Australia in Bangalore in 2013, Ravindra Jadeja and Shikhar Dhawan mocked Shane Watson, who had suffered a hamstring injury, by hobbling on the field.

Read more |

Watson and the Indian players even had an altercation regarding the incident. Later, ICC fined Jadeja 10 per cent of his match fee for the send-off. 
