20170318 
Ashwin Sundar dies in tragic Chennai crash, fellow racers mourn 
18-3-2017 
Professional auto racer Ashwin Sundar and his wife Niveditha passed away on Saturday after a fatal car crash in Chennai. The couple’s BMW car rammed into a roadside tree, causing the car to be engulfed by flames. The racing world has mourned the young driver’s death.

Follow: India vs Australia - Day 3 blog here

Ashwin Sundar and his wife, who was a doctor, were trapped inside the car and were charred to death. Ashwin Sundar had been driving the car at the time of the accident. The tragic crash was caught on camera by witnesses.

Ashwin Sundar is a former national champion, having won the Formula 4 national title twice. He had also won the MRF Formula 1600 International Challenge competition on two occasions.

#FMSCI deeply regrets death of national racing champ #AshwinSundar and wife Nivedhita in car crash last night. Our condolences to the family — FMSCI (@fmsci) March 18, 2017

At the beginning of his career, Sundar had lifted the MRF Formula Mondial National Championship twice.

Motor sports has lost a truly fine driver and an amazing person in #AshwinSundar. May his soul rest in peace. #RIPAshwin — FMSCI (@fmsci) March 18, 2017

“It’s a sad day for motor sports,” FMSCI president Akbar Ebrahim said.

“I knew Ashwin since he was an infant and I saw him excel in all formats of the sport. May his and his wife’s soul rest in peace,” he added​, expressing his sorrow on behalf of the fraternity​.”

The news of his death has shocked the Indian motorsport fraternity. Former Formula 1 driver Karun Chandhok took to Twitter to express his condolences.

Very sad to hear this morning that the young Indian National racing champion Ashwin Sundar and his wife were killed in a road accident. #RIP — Karun Chandhok (@karunchandhok) March 18, 2017

Vaguely remember racing with him in the MRF Formula Mondial back in good old 2003/04. Very tragic #RIP #ashwinsundar https://t.co/Tnfheh7G3u — Jeetu Shenoy (@jeetushenoy) March 18, 2017

Badminton ace Jwala Gutta termed Sundar’s death as tragic, while Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje also offered her condolences to the bereaved family.

@HTSportsNews really tragic #ashwinsundar

My condolences to the family — Gutta Jwala (@Guttajwala) March 18, 2017

Saddened by the tragic news of demise of National car racer #AshwinSundar & his wife. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family. — Vasundhara Raje (@VasundharaBJP) March 18, 2017

Ashwin Sundar had been in the professional car racing circuit for well over a decade. 
