20170318 
Hindujas retain top spot in UK’s richest Asian List 
18-3-2017 
The Hinduja brothers – Gopichand and Srichand – retained the top spot in the annual compilation of Britain’s richest Asians with an estimated net worth of £19 billion, with steel magnate Lakshmi Mittal second with £12.6 billion, according to the list revealed on Friday.

The 2017 Asian Rich List, which profiles the top 101 highest earners in the British Asian community, valued the top 10 wealthiest Asians in Britain at an estimated £48.4 billion and sees the Hinduja family increasing their valuation by £2.5 billion, while Mittal has almost doubled his net worth from £6.4 billion in 2016.

The list, which was revealed at the 20th annual Asian Business Awards, is considered a definitive guide to Asian wealth in Britain and a window to the economic achievements of a community.

This year’s list comprises a combined wealth of almost £70 billion. It features four new entries, including Bhupendra and Ramesh Kansagra of Solai Holdings Limited, who entered at the 17th place on the list with an estimated value of £500 million, the AMG Group, which compiles the list, said in a release.

The list is dominated by business leaders from a range of industries, most notably pharmaceuticals, healthcare, and cash and carry businesses, which when combined make up more than 20% of the list.

Businesses based in and around London make up more than half of the list.

Shailesh Solanki, executive editor of AMG, said: “This year’s list is once again a fascinating commentary on the financial impact British Asians have in the UK and the level of success growth that certain entrepreneurs and business leaders have achieved.”

Speaking at the event, London mayor Sadiq Khan said: “London is home to one of largest, and most diverse South Asian communities in the world, which contributes a huge amount to our city’s success – socially, culturally and economically. Nowhere is that clearer than in the business community.”

“From retail and pharmacy to tech and innovation, the UK’s Asian business leaders are at the forefront of their respective industries. The Asian Business Awards recognises the incredible success of these leaders and I was delighted to join them and the Asian Media and Marketing Group for another fantastic evening.”

The Top 20 richest Asians in Britain

1. Gopichand and Srichand Hinduja

2. Lakshmi Mittal

3. Sri Prakash Lohia

4. Simon , Bobby and Robin Arora

4. Anil Agarwal

6. Cyrus and Priya Vandrevala

7. Sir Anwar Pervez

8. Jasminder Singh

9. Manubhai Chandharia and family

10. Rajesh Satiija Ram

10. Zameer Choudrey

12. Ranjit and Baljinder Boparan

13. Harpal Matharu

14. Muhmud Kamani and family

14. Lord Swraj Paul and family

16. Vijay and Bhikhu Patel

17. Amit Patel

17. Mayurbhai Madhvani and family

17. Bhupendra and Ramesh Kansagra

20. Sukhpal Singh Ahluwhalia

20. Kuljinder Singh Bahia

20. Surinder Arora 
