20170319 
Yogi Adityanath to be sworn in as UP chief minister today with two deputy CMs 
19-3-2017 
Firebrand Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Yogi Adityanath will take oath as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh at a function in Lucknow’s Kanshiram memorial ground at 2.15pm on Sunday.

Governor Ram Naik will administer the oath of office and secrecy to Adityanath, about 20 cabinet ministers and a few minister of state in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, sources said.

BJP president Amit Shah and chief ministers of NDA-ruled states will attend the ceremony.

There could be a maximum of 60 ministers in Uttar Pradesh government.

State BJP president Keshav Prasad Maurya and party’s national vice-president Dinesh Sharma will be the deputy chief ministers.

A week after the BJP grabbed power in the state with a thumping majority, Yogi Aditya Nath, a five-time Lok Sabha MP from Gorakhpur, was unanimously elected BJP legislature party leader at a meeting of the MLAs in Lucknow on Saturday evening. He later met the governor and staked claim to form the government in the state.

Talking to reporters at Raj Bhavan, the chief minister-designate said he would follow Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s slogan ‘Sab ka saath, Sab ka vikas’ and ensure all-round development of the state.

Union minister M Venkaiah Naidu, who was the central observer at the legislature party meeting, said it was a watershed moment for the BJP and that the mandate is for development, and against corruption and black money.

Opposition parties, however, criticised the selection of the Hindu hardliner, a 44-year-old leader who is also the head of the Gorakhnath temple, a centuries old shrine dedicated to Lord Shiva.

Political analysts said the massive mandate might have helped the party overcome caste concerns and carry forward its agenda of Hindutva and development.

Adityanath has called on his followers and admirers to maintain law and order during their celebrations, while giving full freedom to the state police to take action on those who create ruckus.

“There should be no chaos in the name of celebrations. Police must deal swiftly and firmly with miscreants,” he said.

Following the Chief Minister designate’s orders, all the District Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) have been called to ensure law and order is maintained. 
