20170319 
LIVE: Yogi Adityanath will be sworn in as UP chief minister today, PM Modi to attend ceremony 
19-3-2017 
Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Yogi Adityanath will be sworn in as the Uttar Pradesh chief minister on Sunday afternoon, along with two deputies Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma.

The new cabinet would be sworn in at 2.15pm on Sunday, information and broadcasting minister M Venkaiah Naidu told reporters after a meeting of the newly-elected 312 BJP legislators in Lucknow. The oath-taking ceremony is expected to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP president Amit Shah.

BJP legislators from Uttar Pradesh on Saturday elected Adityanath, the controversial mascot of hardline Hindutva, as the next chief minister of Uttar Pradesh.

The BJP also picked its national vice-president Dinesh Sharma and state unit chief Keshav Prasad Maurya as Adityanath’s deputies.

Watch this space for Live updates:

1pm: Forty-five ministers, including 22 cabinet ministers, will take oath in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Here’s is a list of MLAs who will be taking oath in the afternoon.

12:20pm: Immediately after taking oath, Yogi will hold the new government’s first cabinet meeting at 4.30pm at Lok Bhawan, the chief minister’s secretariat. The cabinet will take a call on loan waiver of medium and marginal farmers.

11am: People in Gorakhpur, where Adityanath was a temple priest, celebrate ahead of the oath-taking ceremony.

People celebrate ahead of Yogi Adityanath’s swearing-in ceremony, in Gorakhpur. (HT Photo)

10am: Yogi Adityanath will take charge as CM in Lok Bhawanfollowed by a meeting with ministers. He will address a press conference at 5pm on Sunday: ANI

About 20 other ministers can be sworn-in on Sunday, according to sources.

9am: Uttar Pradesh BJP chief KP Maurya tells ANI he has issues with Yogi Adityanath being chosen as the chief minister. “I have been entrusted with the responsibility of a deputy CM... I’ll work on the law and order situation.”

7:30am: Yogi Adityanath greets supporters as he leaves his VVIP guest house in Lucknow. He will be going to Gorakhpur -- his constituency -- after meeting with DGP Javeed Ahmad, principal secy Home Devashish Panda and SSP Lucknow, reports ANI.

(With inputs from agencies) 
