20170319 
AIIMS-Patna to recruit 240 faculty members 
19-3-2017 
The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna, will soon issue advertisement for recruitment for around 240 positions in its medical faculty. This will be the second round of recruitment, after the first round which concluded in July 2013.

The AIIMS-Patna, which commenced its first academic session in 2012, currently has 54 faculty members.against the sanctioned faculty strength of 305.

The recruitment will cover all disciplines, including pre-clinical, para-clinical and clinical departments. The only exception, however, may be the faculty recruitment for trauma and emergency departments because the authorities apparently lack clarity on how to go about it.

Sources said around 52 posts of professors, 48 of additional professors, 85 of associate professors and 109 posts of assistant professors, would be advertised across all departments.

A bulk of the recruitments would be for clinical departments, wherein 45 posts of professors, 41 of additional professors, 75 of associate professors and 90 of assistant professors, were likely to be advertised, the sources added.

Clinical departments in which recruitment of faculty is on the anvil, include general medicine, general surgery, obstetrics and gynaecology, orthopaedics, otorhinolaryngology (ENT), paediatrics, pulmonary medicine and tuberculosis.

Four posts of professors, six of additional professors, four of associate professors and 10 of assistant professors are likely to be filled in the para-clinical departments, including pathology, microbiology, pharmacology, community medicine, physical medicine and rehabilitation and forensic medicine and toxicology.

Three posts of professors, one of additional professor, six of associate professors and nine of assistant professors are up for grabs in pre-clinical departments like anatomy, physiology and biochemistry.

“We will advertise in the coming week for almost all the remaining faculty positions. However, we may not fill up all the posts we advertise if we do not get the right candidates. For, having good faculty members is important for the growth of an institute,” AIIMS-Patna director Dr PK Singh told HT over phone from Lucknow.

Dr Singh also clarified that those having the requisite degree and experience might merit an interview call, but their selection would depend on whether or not they satisfied the academic and research criteria laid down by the interview panel.

The selection committee will be headed by the director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, New Delhi, Dr SK Sarin, also a former chairman of the board of governors of the Medical Council of India. It will include experts and the director AIIMS-Patna will be its member-secretary.

Interestingly, faculty recruitment at AIIMS-Patna was mired in controversy earlier, in 2015, over raising the upper age ceiling, without the approval of the institute body — the highest body of AIIMS.

At that time, the February 2015 advertisement for recruitment was reopened in December that year. When this happened, the authorities had removed the age bar for existing faculty members, prompting the previous deputy director (administration), Anil Kishore Yadav, to raise a red flag.

Dr Sarin had then scrapped the entire recruitment process.

Besides, at least 16 of the initially recruited 66 faculty members, recruited in the first round, between August 2012 and July 2013, allegedly have suspect credentials. There are allegations that some did not have even the basic qualification and experience, while one was overage, but had still made the cut. 
