20170319 
Saif Ali Khan on Taimur: He is not the only star kid in town, there are so many 
19-3-2017 
Ever since his debut, Saif Ali Khan has been considered one of the most suave and polished personalities around. And it looks like his wife Kareena Kapoor Khan agrees with that notion. During a recent appearance on Karan Johar’s chat show, Koffee With Karan, Kareena said, “There’s no one like Saif (since) the combination of being so mentally and physically sexy is not possible. I think he was the last of that era.”

Read more

When asked about Kareena’s comment, Saif says, “I think Bebo is being very kind. That’s a very sweet thing to say. She is my wife, so it’s obviously nice if she thinks that. But I am sure there are lots of [other] amazing people everywhere, and it’s not just me (laughs). I think, at 46, you are aware of the history and you are quite contemporary, too.”

Saif Ali Khan got critical acclaim for his performance in Omkara.

Past and present

Saif adds that at his age people “hopefully have a sense of the world gone by and the present world”. He says, “There is a small window where you are young as well as aware of the past, and maybe Kareena meant something like that,” says the actor, adding that he likes to have “many interests” and that he keeps himself “quite busy”.

Saif Ali Khan married Kareena Kapoor in 2012.

The Cocktail (2012) actor reveals that he likes to indulge in books, music and sports. “I find that everything resonates much more with me than it used to. Everything means something now. My mind is richer than it was, but I know there are people who are far better, smarter and cleverer than me in every way. I am happy that I can keep myself busy,” he says.

Saif Ali Khan starred in Dil Chahta Hai alongside Aamir Khan and Akshaye Khanna.

A relaxed attitude

Over the past few years, it seems as if Saif has developed a relaxed attitude towards life. Is that true? “I don’t know if I was always like this or have become this way. Maybe I am in a good space, and I just want to do some good work, go home and have a good life,” says the actor.

Saif Ali Khan made his film debut in the 90s with Parampara.

The Love Aaj Kal (2009) actor says he also likes to make people comfortable when he’s on the set. “It’s better to relax and feel that way. Also, no matter if it’s character actor with a very small part or someone who has got a major part, if we are relaxed in the scene, and are equals in front of the camera, then we can hopefully do something special and create some good work. And that’s all I am really interested in,” he says.

Saif Ali Khan’s wife, Kareena Kapoor Khan gave birth to their son, Taimur last year. (HT Photo)

No complications

In fact, a number of his co-actresses also feel that he is a superb colleague. When asked about that, he says, “I guess it’s also that I share a good equation with most of the leading ladies I have worked with. So, most of them have been home for dinners, etc. I am happy to make friends,” he says.

Saif Ali Khan’s daughter, Sara Ali Khan will make her Bollywood debut soon. (HT Photo)

Interestingly, the Nawab adds that he has always tried to “share a completely relaxed relationship” with his co-actresses so that a “nice movie” can be made “with no complications and no strings”. “That becomes a nightmare and I like to avoid that. Perhaps that’s why people are comfortable. I am not really in it for anything else,” he says.

Saif Ali Khan will next be seen the Bollywood adaptation of the Hollywood hit, Chef.

Baby talk

There is so much pressure on kids these days to be good-looking. I just hope he is good guy. He is not the only star kid in town, there are so many. But sometimes people make it difficult, and some sections of the press pay too much attention. So, it’s hard to be normal, but I guess that goes with the territory. I think I was quite normal, or probably not (laughs). 
