20170319 
Yogi Adityanath takes oath as Uttar Pradesh CM, vows to work for all 
19-3-2017 
Yogi Adityanath, the 44-year-old head priest of Gorakhnath temple and five-time MP, was sworn in as the 32nd chief minister of Uttar Pradesh on Sunday with two deputy chief ministers and 44 ministers.

In his first decision as CM, Adityanath asked all his ministers to declare their income and assets to the chief minister’s secretariat and the BJP state unit within 15 days. The CM also nominated two ministers — Sidharth Nath Singh and Srikant Sharma — as spokespersons who would regularly brief the media about the government’s works and cabinet decisions.

“Hum yuvaon ke sapnon ko saakar karenge (we will fulfil the dreams of the youth),” Adityanath said, adding that the state government would work for all sections without any discrimination.

The Adityanath government inducted a Muslim minister as well as a Sikh face along with 26 upper caste ministers, 15 OBCs and five Dalits at a star-studded ceremony in Lucknow’s Smriti Upvan grounds. Five of the ministers are women.

Read more

Cricketer-turned-politician Mohsin Raza is the lone Muslim face in the ministry. The BJP had not fielded a single Muslim candidate in the UP elections, which it won with a brute majority. Baldev Aulakh, a Sikh, who won the election from Bilaspur in Rampur, was also sworn in.

Chants of ‘Modi Modi’, ‘Yogi Yogi’ and ‘Jai Sri Ram’ rang out when governor Ram Naik administered the oath of office to Adityanath. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP president Amit Shah and Union home minister Rajnath Singh were present at the swearing-in of the first majority government of the party in UP after 1991.

Modi made his views known on Twitter, stating, “I have immense confidence that this new team will leave no stone unturned in making UP Uttam Pradesh. There will be record development.”

BJP veterans LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, chief ministers of party-ruled states, leaders of allies, including Apna Dal leader Anupriya Patel, were at the event.

Read more

Union minister Manoj Sinha, who was considered a front runner for the CM’s post, did not attend the ceremony.

UP BJP chief Keshav Prasad Maurya, an OBC, and Lucknow mayor Dinesh Sharma, a Brahmin, were sworn in as the two deputy CMs. The government has 22 cabinet ministers, nine ministers of state (independent charge) and 13 ministers of state. 
