20170320 
5 stories to look out for: Indian clerics to return to Delhi, GST legislations 
20-3-2017 
From restrictions on Delhi Metro services over Jat protests to “missing” Indian clerics returning to Delhi from Pakistan, here are the stories to look out for today:

1) Jat protests called off: Metro services to be normal, some restrictions to remain

With Jats calling off their agitation, Delhi Metro on Sunday announced its services will be normal on Monday but for restrictions on exit from specific stations. Metro stations in Gurgaon, Noida and Faridabad will remain open as usual, but the commuters will not be allowed to exit at Yellow Line’s four stations -- Central Secretariat, Patel Chowk, Udyog Bhavan and Lok Kalyan Marg. However, entry will be allowed at these stations, an advisory by Delhi Metro said.

2) Indian clerics traced to Pakistan to reach Delhi today

External affairs minister Sushma Swaraj said two Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah clerics, who went missing in Pakistan, are safe and will be back in Delhi on Monday. Syed Asif Nizami, the head priest of the dargah, and his nephew Nazim Ali Nizami had gone to Lahore on March 8 and were supposed to return to India on March 20. Asif was visiting Pakistan to meet his sister in Karachi. Pakistan had conveyed to India the missing clerics were traced to Karachi.

3) Cabinet may consider GST supplementary legislations

The Cabinet may take up for approval the supporting GST legislations, which will then be introduced in Parliament as the government sprints to meet the July 1 deadline for rollout of the new indirect tax regime. A set of four supporting legislations -- the Compensation Law, the Central-GST or C-GST, Integrated-GST or I-GST and Union Territory-GST or UT-GST -- are likely to together go to the Cabinet for approval on Monday.

4) JNU missing student case: Court to decide on polygraph test

A Delhi court will decide on Monday if the nine JNU students can be asked by Delhi Police to give their consent for lie detector test in a case related to the university’s missing student Najeeb Ahmed. Chief metropolitan magistrate Sumit Dass had reserved the order after the counsel appearing for the students submitted that the “lie detector test is unconstitutional and illegal unless it is voluntary”. 27-year-old Najeeb has been missing since October 14-15 last year after a scuffle at his JNU hostel, allegedly with ABVP activists the previous night. The RSS students’ wing has denied any involvement in his disappearance.

5) India vs Australia: Kohli’s men hoping for a victory on final day of third Test

India’s hopes of trumping over Australia are high as the Virat Kohli-led team takes on Kangaroos on the final day of third Test in Ranchi. After India declared their first innings on 603 for nine on Day 4 in Ranchi, Ravindra Jadeja took two quick wickets to brighten the home team’s victory prospects against Australia. Australia are still 129 runs away from making India bat a second time and have only eight second wickets at their disposal to achieve that. Will Virat Kohli’s team take the remaining wickets and go 2-1 up in the series or will Steve Smith’s team hang on for a draw?

Catch Day 5 live cricket score here 
