20170320 
Assembly election victories a stamp on PM Modi’s popularity: Chinese state media 
20-3-2017 
The Bharatiya Janata Party has won decisive victories in the recent assembly polls but it remains to be seen whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be able push economic reforms, keep India stable and have a “gentler approach” to minorities, the Chinese state media has said.

There is, however, no doubt that the big victory in Uttar Pradesh will substantially influence the political balance in India, wrote Zhen Bo from the Centre for South Asia-West China Cooperation and Development Studies, Institute of South Asian Studies, Sichuan University, for the nationalistic tabloid Global Times.

“It is worth mentioning that this is the fourth time that one single political party has acquired more than 300 seats in the UP legislative assembly competition. What’s more, the result of the UP election would substantially influence the political balance in India and has always been seen as the signpost of the voters’ attitude across India,” Zhen wrote. The election results were a validation for both Modi and his decisions like demonetisation, the writer argued.

Read more

“The Prime Minister’s popularity has been validated throughout this election, in which he made himself and his actions the main issue in many public speeches. The ability of Modi to deliver landslide victory results like in UP consolidates his position within the party,” Zhen wrote.

“People have been criticising the demonetisation policy when the BJP government suddenly carried it out last November, and the opposition attacked that the policy has brought a lot of suffering to the poor in the countryside,” Zhen wrote, adding: “Nevertheless, the disputed policy didn’t make the BJP itself suffer. In UP, where most people are farmers, the population has been successfully persuaded by Modi and his team’s effective campaigns.”

The victory also means that one could expect more decisions like demonetisation.

“This also means that more policies like demonetisation, which was conceived with little political consultation inside the party, can be anticipated. Modi genuinely believes he can deliver the best solutions to many problems in India.”

Read more

One worrying aspect of Modi’s hold over his party is the absence of dissent, which the author thought was unusual for a big party like the BJP. “Generally speaking, a decisive and aggressive leader will also make mistakes. The lack of restraint from the party will probably result in Modi having a free hand to make decisions on more crucial issues. The total absence of dissent in the BJP, unusual for a ruling party in India, is the result of everyone submitting to the authority,” Zhen wrote.

“The BJP has achieved dominance but will India be stable? That depends on the performance of the party. It is still uncertain if the BJP can prevail in 2019.”

“As some Indian analysts questioned, will the BJP, beyond occasional inclusive rhetoric, be willing to experiment with less polarization and forge a larger coalition through expansive spending, a gentler approach to minorities and judicious patron-client processes that could be politically profitable too? We need to wait and see.” 
