20170320 
Law and order is top priority, Uttar Pradesh CM Adityanath tells officials 
20-3-2017 
A day after he was sworn in as the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath has got into action mode. At a high-level meeting called by the chief minister at the VVIP guest house on Monday morning, Adityanath told officials, in no uncertain terms, that law and order is among his top priorities.

Officials who were at the meeting included chief secretary Rahul Bhatnagar, principal secretary (home) Devashish Panda and director general of police (DGP) Javeed Ahamad.

Yogi, according to sources, directed the officials to ensure that FIRs were lodged on all complaints received at police stations.

The CM also told them to take the issue of women’s safety with utmost seriousness.

The chief secretary and others have planned a video conference in the evening with district magistrates and superintendents of police later to reiterate the CM’s directions.

“We will hold a video conference with DMs and SPs to pass on the CM’s message,” a senior official told HT.

Read more

Yogi will hold another meeting with all secretaries at Lok Bhawan later to discuss developmental issues among others.

Adityanath also expressed concern over the killing of a BSP leader in Allahabad, and stressed that restoring law and order was the top priority of his government.

A 60-year-old BSP leader, Mohd Shami, was gunned down by assailants on Sunday night close to his residence in Mauaima area, 40 km from Allahabad.

Deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma also met Adityanath.

Maurya later told reporters that the first meeting of the state Cabinet would discuss all key issues mentioned in the BJP’s ‘sankalp patra’, which include loan waiver to farmers and ban on mechanised slaughter houses.

Read more

Sharma said his meeting was just a courtesy call. “We will work for the welfare of the people with full vigour and ensure that the work is visible on the ground,” he said.

Meanwhile, BSP chief Mayawati on Monday attacked Adityanath, alleging that he will “divide the state on communal lines” and push RSS agenda in the state.

She said the BJP will not be able to maintain law and order in Uttar Pradesh.

“In Uttar Pradesh, it does not matter if it is the SP or the BJP in power. They cannot control law and order. BJP has appointed a priest as chief minister who will not take forward the agenda of development but will push the RSS agenda.

“They will divide Uttar Pradesh on communal lines. Now, there will again be an environment of fear in the state,” she told reporters outside Parliament.

Mayawati, whose party was decimated in the assembly polls, was responding to queries on Aditynath’s appointment and the murder of a BSP leader in Allahabad.

(With agency inputs) 
