20170119 
Jallikattu protests LIVE: SC refuses to admit hearing on Marina beach protests 
19-1-2017 
Thousands of protesters have thronged Marina Beach in Chennai on Thursday against a court ban on Jallikattu, Tamil Nadu’s popular but controversial bull-taming sport played during Pongal festivities in mid-January.

They have demanded lifting of restrictions on the sport, a ban on animal rights campaign group PETA, and an audience with chief minister O Panneerselvam.

The chief minister didn’t go to Marina, but promised in a statement that he would request Prime Minister Narendra Modi to pass an emergency ordinance to allow the sport. Also, he implored the protesters to end their demonstration.

Officials said Panneerselvam will fly to New Delhi on Thursday to meet Modi and seek an ordinance to lift the Supreme Court ban on the sport that has sparked massive protests and fuelled anger against the state and central governments.

Live updates below

11:05 am:

Delhi: Tamil Nadu Chief Minister O. Pannerselvam meets Prime Minister Narendra Modi to urge ordinance on #Jallikattu. pic.twitter.com/KnTgV9YKhR — ANI (@ANI_news) January 19, 2017

11:00 am: Supreme Court refuses to admit a plea filed which sought that apex court should hear the matter pertaining to the public protest against Jallikattu ban at Marina beach. The Supreme Court asked the petitioner to approach the concerned Court.

10:45 am:

Delhi: Youth activists protest outside Tamil Nadu House in support of the bull taming sport #jallikattu pic.twitter.com/2wlZ0DJ4Kk — ANI (@ANI_news) January 19, 2017

10:25 am: Chief minister O Panneerselvam arrives at 7, Lok Kalyan Marg to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to urge ordinance on Jallikattu.

10:15 am: Several colleges have declared holiday in Chennai and in other parts of the state, the number of students to assemble at Marina is expected to go up.

10:00 am: At the Marina beach here, protesters sat through Wednesday night and on Thursday morning, they helped in cleaning up the area which is a litter free zone. 
