20170213 
Jat quota agitation gathers steam in northern Haryana too 
13-2-2017 
The Jats’ pro-quota agitation entered Day 15 on Sunday as the gathering at the protest sites swelled in the northern districts, a day after the protesters and government panel held parleys in Panipat.

All India Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS) has decided to intensify the agitation from February 19, which is the anniversary of last year’s protest, termed ‘Balidan Diwas’.

Though the jat leaders said that the meeting with government delegation concluded on a positive note, the government did not disclose what steps will be taken to end the impasse.

But the increase in turnout at the protest sites is worrisome for the government as well as the Jat leaders, especially after having witnessed violence last year.

AIJASS national president Yashpal Malik siad, “Yes, the gathering at the dharnas is increasing day by day. Agitation is going on peacefully and it will remain so. Protesters are Jats and there is no space for the anti- social elements this time.”

Malik has made it clear that the ball is in the government’s court now and administration will not be allowed to use force against the protesters.

“This time, there is no chance of the protest ending without solving the issue for once and for all,” said Baldev Rathee, AIJASS convener for Kurukshetra district.

“During the meeting we had raised our demands, but we don’t see that the government will accept them immediately. So, the agitation is on,” he said.

Union minister Birender Singh during his visit to Panipat said the meeting between the government panel and Jats will bring about positive results and the matter might be sorted out in the meetings to follow.

Meanwhile, replying to a question at Karnal, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the government was ready for talks with the protesting Jats and steps are being taken to solve the issue.

“They have put their demands before the government and we will look into them,” he said. 
