20170214 
Students appearing for NBSE exams 2017 exempted from bandh: NTAC, JCC 
14-2-2017 
Nagaland School Education Minister, Yitachu had appealed to agitators to allow peaceful conduct of Class XI and XII examination by NBSE starting from Tuesday. Nagaland School Education Minister, Yitachu had appealed to agitators to allow peaceful conduct of Class XI and XII examination by NBSE starting from Tuesday.

Nagaland Tribes Action Committee (NTAC), Kohima and the Joint Coordination Committee (JCC) on Monday announced that students appearing in the Class X, XI and XII examinations conducted by the Nagaland Board of School Education (NBSE) are exempted from the purview of their bandh. Considering the appeals made by various Naga Student Organisations and the public in general we have decided to exempt the students appearing in Class X, XI and XII examination conducted by NBSE from the purview of the bandhs.

NTAC and JCC are spearheading agitations in the state demanding that Chief Minister T R Zeliang step down from his post.

Earlier in the day Nagaland School Education Minister, Yitachu had appealed to agitators to allow peaceful conduct of Class XI and XII examination by NBSE starting from Tuesday. Yitachu told PTI that the examination will go ahead as scheduled as postponement of examinations will hamper the career of students. He had appealed to the agitators to allow for peaceful conduct of the examinations.

Asked whether any special arrangements will be made for transportation of students to the examination centres, the minister said the responsibility should be shared by all stakeholders, including the parents and public so that the students can appear in the examinations in a peaceful atmosphere.

Around 17, 272 students will appear in the class XI examination and 15,472 in the XII examination conducted by the NBSE which will start on Tuesday. The High School Leaving Certificate or the Class X will also start from February 15 and will end on February 27. Some 22,446 students will appear in the examination which will be held in 76 centres across the state.

A total of 32,744 students, comprising of 25,015 in Arts stream, 2,496 in Commerce and 5233 in Science are appearing for both the exams, which will end on March 6. The district administration has also deployed Dobashis, who are traditional keepers of law and order situation under the administration, and police security personnel at the examination centres for smooth conduct of the exams.

Meanwhile, the indefinite bandh imposed by NTAC Kohima and JCC has affected normal life in the state for the second day on Tuesday. Markets, banks and government offices remained closed and people preferred to stay indoors. JCC organisations have clarified that the current movement should not be mixed up with any political agenda.

“Our demand is not negotiable,” the JCC affirmed. The Nagaland government had fulfilled two demands of NTAC with regard to declaring the entire process of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) election with 33 per cent reservation for women as null and void and suspending the police personnel involved in January 31 police firing on the protesters leading to the killing of two youths.

The organisations, however, are adamant in their demand for the CM’s resignation.

For more stories on education, click here 
