20170218 
Tamil Nadu: Stalin detained for staging protest at Marina beach, DMK cadres held 
18-2-2017 
Following the ruckus in the Tamil Nadu state assembly, DMK working president M K Stalin was detained after he sat on a protest at Marina beach against the alleged attack on him and his party MLAs during the trust vote on Saturday.

Terming the day as a “black day” for democracy, the senior DMK leader urged all those who wanted to “remove” the “anti- democratic” AIADMK government to join him.

After alleging that he was manhandled in the Assembly by the marshals on the day of the vote of confidence, which the Palaniswami government won with a comfortable margin of 122-11, Stalin sat on a protest at the Marina along with his MLAs.

However, police detained the protesting MLAs including Stalin.

Read| Palaniswami wins trust vote in Tamil Nadu assembly, DMK legislators evicted after violence

“It is a black day for democracy. This anti-people(AIADMK) government must be removed. Insisting that a peaceful protest is underway at the Marina. Those who want to remove this anti-democratic government should converge at the Marina,” he said in a statement here.

Incidentally, the Marina had witnessed a week-long pro-jallikattu protests in January where scores of people, mainly youngsters had converged at the sands of the famous beach and agitated before it turned violent.

Meanwhile, several DMK workers blocked vehicular traffic and indulged in stone-pelting in different places in the state to protest the alleged attack on Stalin, police said.

In Tirupur, stones were hurled at the Avinashi office of state Assembly Speaker P Dhanapal, police said.

DMK supporters staged protests in more than 10 places in and around Coimbatore.

Reports from Cuddalore said, government buses were damaged in stone-throwing incidents at Chidambaram, Virudachalam and Veppur in the district, in which two persons sustained minor injuries.

In Puducherry, the DMK cadres staged a road roko at near the bus terminus and raised slogans condemning the attack on Stalin.

Thanjavur reports said, around 300 persons including former Union Minister TR Balu were arrested for burning the effigy of Dhanapal.

Similarly, picketing was reported from several places in Erode district, including Bhavani, Gobichettipalayam and Sathyamangalam.

Read| Palaniswami wins trust vote: Here’s how parties played their cards 
