20170119 
Jallikattu protests continue to rock Tamil Nadu; AR Rahman, Rajinikanth express support 
19-1-2017 
Top Tamil Nadu celebrities Rajinikanth, Kamal Haasan and AR Rahman came out in support of Jallikattu on Thursday, as protests against a court ban on the popular and ancient bull-taming sport rocked the southern state for the third consecutive day.

Superstars Rajinikanth and Haasan said separately that the sport, played around Pongal festival in mid-January, must be allowed as it is part of Tamil culture.

Oscar-winning music composer Rahman tweeted that he would fast on Friday to “support the spirit of Tamil Nadu”.

Watch: PMK leader Anbumani Ramadoss detained for Jallikattu protest

They are among a host of celebrities and organisations that have pledged their support to thousands of people protesting peacefully on Chennai’s signature Marina Beach, and cities and towns across the state. The protesters vowed that their apolitical demonstration will continue as long as the Supreme Court’s 2014 ban is not lifted.

More people joined the demonstrations after Prime Minister Narendra Modi remained non-committal to chief minister O Panneerselvam’s appeal for an ordinance to skirt the ban on Jallikattu. Modi said the matter was in the apex court.

Thousands of people camping on Marina Beach blamed politicians for not bringing in an emergency ordinance to override the court’s ban. Besides, they wanted a ban on PETA, the animal rights group that campaigned against Jallikattu.

Read more

“We are not politicians,” said Haseem, a 19-year-old college student from Chennai who joined the protests on Wednesday morning. “Our movement is not going stop because of our leaders’ failures. Our movement began as a response to their repeated failures.”

The protests were triggered by the Supreme Court’s refusal last week to pass an order before the Pongal celebrations.

Experts fear the apolitical Jallikattu protests could morph into a bigger uprising such as the anti-Hindi movement. Tamil Nadu witnessed large-scale protests by students in the 1960s over the imposition of Hindi as the official language in the state, with the majority Dravidian community fiercely opposing it before the order was rolled back by the central government.

A differently-abled #Jallikattu protester at Marina Beach, Chennai @htTweets pic.twitter.com/tUcie0AhKQ — Aditya Iyer (@Theadityaiyer) January 19, 2017

Hanif Mohammed is one of many who say the #Jallikattu protests here are beyond politics, creed, and caste @htTweets pic.twitter.com/2wYE3vPff9 — Aditya Iyer (@Theadityaiyer) January 19, 2017

Sentiments expressed on the beach had strong anti-Centre overtones.

“Do you really think a BJP Hindi-wallah sitting in Delhi is interested in us Tamils?” asked Ganesh, a 40-year-old professional from Chennai. “He was silent when Karnataka defied the SC and didn’t release Cauvery water. So what is he going to do?”

Senthil Nayagan, a 40-year-old IT professional who helped coordinate logistics for the crowd at the seafront site, said the protests are about an integral piece of Tamil culture that has been throttled.

Read more

“No politician is behind this, it’s the people spontaneously coming forth to fight for their heritage in the face of opposition from the Centre and other groups.”

Support for the movement continued to pour in; motivated by a perception that the Centre is infringing on Tamil cultural heritage.

Theatres across the state on Thursday cancelled their morning and matinee shows, while the Nadigar Sangam or a film actors’ association announced a hunger strike on Friday.

The Madras high court advocates’ association announced it will boycott court proceedings on Friday.

Authorities ordered over two dozen colleges Chennai to close down, anticipating trouble.

Tensions have been escalating for the past week after hundreds of people were detained by police for allegedly organising local Jallikattu contests in defiance of the court ban.

(With agency inputs in New Delhi) 
