20170221 
Jat stir: Sedition case slapped against protester for ‘beheading remark’ against PM Modi 
21-2-2017 
The police on Monday registered a sedition case against an organising member of Jat dharnas in Rohtak for allegedly calling to behead Prime Minister Narendra Modi within 24 hours if Jat leader Yashpal Malik asked for it.

Sombir, a resident of Jassia village in Rohtak district was booked under sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 A (promoting enmity between groups) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).

“Agar aap kaho to hum Modi ka sar kaat denge lekin aapka sar nai jhukne denge (If you say, we will behead Modi but won’t let you down),” Sombir had announced through a microphone addressing a large gathering, in response to an announcement made by Jat leader Yashpal Malik. However, Malik immediately tried to control the situation by adding that their intentions were to lead a peaceful protest.

Also Read | Jat stir: Leaders ask protesters to stop paying electricity, water bills if demands not met

Sombir has been an active member of the organising teams of Jat dharnas this year. He was also active during the dharnas organised in July last year.

He had made the statement on Sunday when the Jat community was observing ‘Balidaan Divas’ in presence of a well-attended gathering.

Rohtak superintendent of police Pankaj Nain said he has been booked after police took cognisance of his videos which went viral on WhatsApp and was reported by some newspapers.

Jats at Jassia village earlier in the day also gave a call to boycott a Hindi daily allegedly owned by a BJP minister for reporting the ‘beheading remark’.

Also Read | Quota agitation: Jats to clog Delhi on March 2, ‘gherao’ Parliament

In his defence, Sombir said he was a protester, so it is natural for him to make announcements against the government.

SP Nain had earlier said that the protesters were given permission to hold dharnas along NH-71 A on the condition that they will refrain from making any incitive or derogatory remarks. 
