20170226 
Maoists call bandh on Feb 27 to protest encounters, ‘anti-people policies’ 
26-2-2017 
Security was stepped up in Bastar region of Chhattisgarh following a nationwide bandh call by Maoists on February 27, against the alleged fake encounters and “anti-people policies” of the state and central governments.

“We have issued instructions to security forces to be cautious and intensify the drill and operations in the region,” said inspector general of police (in-charge) Bastar range, Sundarraj P.

The IG further said all steps have been taken to prevent any untoward incident in the region.

Bastar region comprises seven districts -- Kondagaon , Dantewada, Bastar Bijapur, Narayanpur, Kanker and Sukma.

Maoists torched two vehicles including a passenger bus on Sunday ahead of the bandh.

Read more

Police said the bus was set ablaze near Gatam village and a multi-utility vehicle (MUV) was torched at Karcheli village under Katekalyan police station area. No one was injured in both the incidents.

Similarly, on Saturday, Maoists had torched a private passenger bus in Bijapur district.

Following the call of the ultras, the only passenger train, which runs from Kirandul to Jagdalpur , was also cancelled for Monday. About a dozen goods trains have also been halted.

On Sunday, the bus, belonging to a private travel company, was on its way to Jagdalpur from Dantewada when it was stopped near Gatam village by over two dozen armed Maoists, police said. They asked the passengers to get off, and set it ablaze.

Read more

In the second incident, Maoists stopped the MUV carrying employees of Chhattisgarh State Renewable Energy Development Agency who were visiting Karcheli for solar electrification-related work. They didn’t harm the employees but torched the vehicle.

Security forces were rushed to both the spots, the police official said, and a combing operation was launched.

The Maoists have given a day-long nationwide bandh call to protest alleged fake encounters, rape of tribal women by security personnel and non-fulfilment of promises made to farmers by the government, the officer said.

(With PTI inputs) 
