20170318 
No Delhi Metro trains in NCR from Sunday night because of Jat protests 
18-3-2017 
Monday may prove to be difficult for office-goers in the NCR as the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has decided to shut all stations outside Delhi from Sunday night till further orders.

With Jats threatening to intensify their protest on Monday to demand reservations in jobs and education , Delhi Police has asked DMRC to terminate all trains at the last station on all lines in Delhi from 11.30 pm on Sunday.

Apart from 22 stations in NCR,12 stations in central Delhi will be closed from 8pm on Sunday. The restrictions will be there till further orders of Delhi Police, which means Monday is going to be troublesome for commuters.

“DMRC has been directed by the Delhi Police to terminate all trains at Delhi border w.e.f 11.30 pm on March 19. It is therefore requested that necessary arrangements may kindly be made for maintenance of law and order at these stations. All entry gates of all Metro stations outside Delhi shall remain closed from 11.30 pm on March 19 till closure of arrangements by Delhi Police,” said the letter written by the DMRC to the police chief of Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Faridabad.

Read more

Adequate security arrangement will be made at the closed stations since chaos is expected on Monday morning. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) has been asked to stay on alert and deploy quick reaction teams at the closed stations. The DMRC staff has been asked not to sell tickets.

Leaders of the Jat community had earlier this month threatened to enter the city with lakhs of supporters on tractors and trolleys on March 20 to demand reservation under the OBC quota. The Jats, during their last protest at Jantar Mantar on March 2, had threatened to cut supply of milk, vegetables and other essentials to Delhi and bring the city to a standstill if their demands weren’t met.

The Delhi stations that will be affected are: Rajiv Chowk, Patel Chowk, Central Secretariat, Udyog Bhawan, Lok kalyan Marg, Janpath, Mandi House, Barakhamba Road, RK Ashram Marg, Pragati Maidan, Khan market and Shivaji stadium.

The interchange facility will, however, be available as usual at Rajiv Chowk and Central Secretariat.

Commuters are worried about the how they will travel in the absence of Metro services.

“Whenever protests happen, Metro is the best and safest option to travel. If they shut the Metro, how will we commute? There will be violence and traffic jam on the roads and Metro too will not be available,” said Neha Singh, who travels to her office in Gurgaon from Preeti Vihar every morning.

Passengers coming from airport will also be affected and won’t be able to exit from Shivaji Stadium station.

“I usually return in the evening from airport and take an auto from Shivaji Stadium to go to my house in Gole Market. Now, I will have to go all the way to New Delhi station and come from there. The roads will be closed so I think I will have to skip my work on Monday,” said Rakesh Singh, who works for an airline at Delhi airport.

At two stations- New Ashok Nagar (last station of Noida line) and Arjangarh (last station of Gurgaon line), train reversal facility is not available. Trains will be vacated at the last stations and empty train will go further to return.

ENDS 
