20170319 
Jat protest: Delhi-Gurgaon border to remain under tight security, Sec 144 to continue 
19-3-2017 
Two battalions of Indo-Tibetan Border Police and additional police force have been deployed at the Delhi-Gurgaon border at Sirhaul on Sunday as a prohibitory measure in view of the Jat protest that was planned in the national capital on Monday. (HIGHLIGHTS)

Jat leaders on Sunday had called off the march to Delhi after talks with government representatives at the Haryana Bhawan in New Delhi. However, the district administration said the security measures would remain in force till the situation normalises.

“We have not got any official communique about the outcome of the talks. Our safety measures will remain intact till the situation is back to normal,” Hardeep Singh, Gurgaon district magistrate, said.

Prohibitory orders under Section 144 that deems illegal any assembly of more than four persons in the district, especially along railway tracks and highways, will remain effective till Wednesday.

Read more

Among various other measures, the administration has ordered that tractors should not be supplied more than 10 litres of fuel and details of the vehicle and driver are to be noted down at fuel stations.

The administration also ordered all tractors moving to Delhi be stopped and parked along barricades set up for the purpose. A total of 15 barricades have been installed at locations from where Jats are likely to enter Gurgaon to proceed to Delhi.

Tractors carrying food and cooking material, lathis, sharp-edged weapons, and arms are barred from travelling on the National Highway 8.

The administration has deputed 32 duty magistrates along with police officials to keep a tab on the law and order situation. Officials of the district administration and police department discussed strategies to handle the situation in case the agitation is revived.

The forces barricaded the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway at Sirhaul border and let vehicles, especially those carrying large number of people, to Delhi only after thorough checking.

Read more

“We have provided additional force and all vehicles are being watched. Police are extra cautious at 15 entry and exit points,” ACP Manish Sehgal, spokesperson, Gurgaon police, said.

The administration has also ordered security arrangements at the district court, residences and offices of judicial officers, MPs, MLAs, government officials, and government rest houses.

Forest department to clear roads

In one of the orders issued,the district magistrate ordered the forest department to keep a watch as protestors could cut trees and block roads, causing inconvenience to the masses. He directed the forest department to keep a tab on such activities. The officials could take help from police for the task.

Check on providing bamboos, tent material

The prohibitory order had barred bamboo shop owners from providing bamboos to agitators or anyone else without prior approval and permission of the concerned sub-divisional magistrate or district magistrate. Owners of shops that sell tent material have also been directed to not provide material to agitators or anyone else without permission from the district authorities. The administration fears that the agitators may erect tents and block public roads. 
