20170123 
Jallikattu live: Police begin evicting protesters, roads to Chennai’s Marina Beach closed 
23-1-2017 
Chennai police on Monday began to forcefully evict Jallikattu protesters who gathered on Marina Beach in the city. The protesters sang the national anthem as they tried to defy attempts to remove them from the site.

The government began deploying a a huge contingent of police on Sunday night on the beach which is alongside Beach Road, the venue of Republic Day parade. Practice sessions for the parade were shifted to a different venue.

Protesters are demanding a “permanent solution” to Jallikattu, dismissing an ordinance promulgated by the state government a day earlier. The Tamil Nadu government has insisted that the ordinance was indeed the “permanent solution”, and assured that a bill will be passed in the assembly on Monday to ensure that the event was not banned again. The Supreme Court banned Jallikattu in 2014 on grounds of animal cruelty.

Live updates:

8:00am:

We urge all students to kindly support us, we are not a separate country but a state of India. Police beating us: Protester,Marina Beach pic.twitter.com/35BxuJBHKm — ANI (@ANI_news) January 23, 2017

7:50am: Police partially clear Marina Beach, protesters forcefully evicted, reports ANI.

7: 45am: Protesters threaten police saying they will commit suicide if forcefully removed from Marina beach .

7:30am: Jallikattu supporters gather in Madurai’s Tamukkam, demand a permanent solution.

7:25am: Chennai police restrict access to Marina beach, block all roads leading up to it.

7:23am: Routes leading to Marina Beach closed. Barricades put up by police to prevent people from assembling there.

7:20am: The city police issued an advisory asking Jallikattu protesters to leave.

Chennai city police advisory asking #Jallikattu protesters at Marina beach to leave @htTweets pic.twitter.com/VEIv3IDKDT — Aditya Iyer (@Theadityaiyer) January 23, 2017

7. 00am: Police at Chennai’s Marina Beach begin removing protesters. 
