20170123 
Jallikattu protesters evicted by Tamil Nadu police from Marina Beach, other places 
23-1-2017 
Chennai police began evicting Jallikattu protesters from the Marina beach early morning on Monday, a day after continued demonstrations for a permanent solution over the issue blocked the Tamil Nadu government’s attempt to hold the traditional bull-taming event in Madurai and some other places.

Over the last weekend at least 40,000 students, IT professionals and even families joined the protests at the Marina Beach in Chennai. But after the ordinance was promulgated, Tamil Nadu Jallikattu Federation president Rajashekaran appealed to the protesters to withdraw the stir on Sunday night. Hip Hop Tamiazha Abhi, a rapper singer who is supporting the movement, had distanced himself from the stir as it was going in a different direction.

Some of the protesters at the Marina beach and few other places in Tamil Nadu began to withdraw after a relentless stir, but many were still adamant that they needed a permanent solution.

Follow Jallikattu live updates on Monday

Tamil Nadu government on Sunday made the government ordinance public, which exempted the sport from the Prevention of Cruetly to Animals Act of 1960, and insisted that it is indeed the permanent solution that protesters have been asking for.

On Sunday night, the government began massing some seven thousand police personnel at the Marina Beach to get the protesters evicted, also from the adjacent Beach Road, which is the track of the Republic Day parade. Practice sessions for the parade were shifted to a different venue for the past few days.

At around 5 am on Monday, police made an announcement asking the protesters to leave, making its intentions very clear. And within few minutes the action began.

The protesters ran towards the sea coast and formed a human chain but here too they were forced to leave as they did not have permission for holding such a gathering.

Reports of similar police action came in from other protest grounds at Dindigal, Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur too. 
