20170319 
LIVE: Restrictions on Delhi metro lifted after Jats call off their protest 
19-3-2017 
The Jat protests that were planned in Delhi on Monday have been called off, the organising body said on Sunday evening after talks with the Manohar Khattar-led Haryana government.

“Our agitation and march towards Delhi has been called off,” said Yashpal Malik, the chairperson of the All India Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS), PTI reported.

The decision followed several rounds of meetings between the government and prominent Jat leaders, details of which are still awaited.

Demands that have been accepted by the Haryana government Cases registered against agitators from 2010 onwards in Haryana will be reviewed.

Those who were killed or handicapped during violence in Haryana in 2016 will be given permanent government jobs.

The injured persons of the 2016 violence will be given the announced compensation.

Action will be taken against those officials who were found guilty of duty.

Members and chairpersons of the National Backward Committee will be appointed soon and process will be initiated to include Jats in Centre’s OBC list.

A matter related to Jat reservation is pending in Punjab and Haryana high court. Once a decision is arrived by the court, process will be initiated to include Jats in the 9th Schedule of Constitution.

Here are the live updates:

6.30pm: As advised by Police authorities,All Metro stations in Delhi-NCR will remain open today and thereafter,” says DMRC.

6.20pm:

Restriction in #delhimetro lifted partially after #JatAgitation called off. @htTweets @htdelhi — Faizan Haidar (@FaiHaider) March 19, 2017

6.10pm: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said, “After discussions with the Jat leaders, we have arrived at a decision that their demands will be met in a time bound manner.”

6pm: Jat leaders on Sunday called off their ‘Delhi Gherao’ agitation after the Haryana government agreed to their demands in a bid to end the community’s 50-day long quota stir.

5.50pm: Sunday’s Delhi Kooch programme has been suspended. Jats will not come to Delhi: Jat leader Yashpal Malik tells ANI. 
