20170206 
Jat quota agitation: Protesters lay siege to NH-71A, cops divert traffic 
6-2-2017 
As the strength of protesters increased, those standing on the roads started stopping the traffic from one side. However, the cops stood still, acting as mute spectators. Situation turned somewhat tense when protesters refused to back off from roads and started marching ahead.

However, they came back on the requests of Jat committee members, who asked the police to divert traffic to keep the situation under control.

The agitation of the Jat community for reservation and roll back of cases registered during last year’s quota stir entered eighth day on Sunday, showing no sign of relentlessness.

Despite enforcement of Section 144 of the CrPC, barring an assembly of more than four people along the national highways and public spots, the roads are thronged by thousands of protesters everyday.

The security forces have been deployed in the markets and public places in the city, which saw large-scale vandalism, loot and arson during last year’s quota stir that had resulted in 30 casualties.

The Jat group has announced to observe ‘Balidan divas’ on February 19, when last year, Jat youth Rahul Dangi was killed in firing near Circuit House in Rohtak.

After his death, violence had taken over Rohtak and adjoining districts in which the properties of finance minister Captain Abhimanyu were targeted.

ENTERTAINMENT, FOOD DRAWING CROWDS TO JAT DHARNAS SITES

Women dancing, singing at a dharna at Jassia village in Rohtak on Sunday. (Manoj Dhaka/HT Photo)

Women dancing, children singing, artistes performing raginis and local ‘chefs’ at mega kitchens serving hot food— what else would anyone need to make a perfect Sunday.

At the protest sites of the Jat community across Haryana, such luxuries are offered to draw maximum crowds as the community wants to show its strength to press the government for reservation, amid other demands.

The protest committee also organises speech and poem recitation competitions to draw young kids to the dharnas and awards them generously for their participation.

To collect donations, a committee has also been set up which receives lakhs of rupees every day from politicians extending support to the movement and regular members of the Jat community, so that the entertainment and food treats may continue for a long time. 
