20170219 
DMK leaders to go on hunger strike on Feb 22 to protest ‘illegal’ trust vote 
19-2-2017 
The DMK on Sunday announced it will hold a hunger strike on February 22 in all district offices of the party across Tamil Nadu to protest what it termed as the “illegal” trust vote moved by chief minister Edapaddi K Palaniswami.

The decision was taken after DMK MLAs met at their headquarters. Party leader Tiruchi Siva said the trust vote moved on Saturday was “illegal”, and the party has submitted a memorandum on the issue to Tamil Nadu governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao, who has promised to look into the matter.

“Sans participation of the opposition in the state assembly, the trust vote moved by the chief minister was passed. It’s illegal. We’ve submitted a memorandum on the issue to the governor. He has promised to look into the matter,” Siva told the media after meeting governor Rao.

Earlier on Sunday, DMK working president MK Stalin held a special meeting with party MLAs at the DMK headquarters.

Read more

An FIR has been filed against Stalin, his party MLAs, MPs and cadres for holding a protest at the Marina beach in Chennai against the alleged attack on him and his MLAs during the trust vote.

Police said the FIR was filed on charges of unlawful assembly and violation of public order.

“DMK held a protest without obtaining prior permission as required under law,” a police official said.

Besides Stalin, 63 MLAs, three MPs and several DMK cadres, who participated in the protest, have been named in the FIR, he said.

Opposition DMK leaders led by working president MK Stalin (sitting, centre) during their protest in Chennai on Saturday. (PTI)

Stalin was detained on Saturday after he sat on the protest at the Marina beach.

He alleged that he was manhandled in the assembly by the marshals during the vote of confidence, which the Palaniswami government won with a comfortable margin of 122-11.

Several DMK workers on Saturday blocked vehicular traffic and pelted stones in different places to protest the alleged attack on Stalin.

Read more 
