20170301 
Modi Maharajganj rally LIVE: UP resembles Saharan Africa, says PM 
1-3-2017 
PM Narendra Modi at an election rally in Maharajganj, Uttar Pradesh. (Source: Twitter/ANI_news) PM Narendra Modi at an election rally in Maharajganj, Uttar Pradesh. (Source: Twitter/ANI_news)

Prime Minister Narendra Modi is addressing an election rally at Maharajganj in Uttar Pradesh before the sixth phase of polling in the state. Speaking at the rally, the PM said, “People have made BJP victorious in five phases that has taken place so far, you only have to give bonus in the sixth phase.”

People have made BJP victorious in the 5 phases that took place, you only have to give us a bonus in the 6th & 7th phase: PM in Maharajganj pic.twitter.com/abURzJsZkV — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) March 1, 2017

#WATCH PM Modi says, “Cong has talented ppl who’ll sell coconut juice in London & set up potato factories in UP. Who’ll save you from them?” pic.twitter.com/qT5yeOS2Uw — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) March 1, 2017

WATCH VIDEO | Coconut Juice Or Pineapple: Watch How PM Modi Got Rahul Gandhi’s Quote Wrong

1:48 pm: “One has expertise in ruining the country, other has expertise in ruining UP. What will happen if they come together?”asked PM on SP-Congress alliance

1:44 pm: We have juices from oranges and lemon. Does coconut give juice? Coconut grows in Kerala but they will extract Coconut water in Manipur too, said PM. (Juice santre,nimbu ka hota hai.Nariyal ka juice hota hai kya? Nariyal Kerala mein hota hai par ye Manipur me nariyal ka juice nikalenge.)

1:41 pm: A Congress leader said, in Manipur, that he will extract coconut juice and sell it in London. The poorest of kids know that its coconut water and not juice. (Cong neta ne Manipur me kaha vo nariyal ka juice nikal ke London me bechenge. Gareeb se gareeb bache ko pata hai nariyal ka pani hota hai)

1:36 pm: The country saw the difference in the thinking of those from Harvard and those who believe in ‘hard work’ (Desh ne dekh liya Harvard (University) walon ki soch kya hoti hai or hardwork ki soch kya hoti), said PM Modi on GDP growth rate.

1:35 pm: On one side are those who talk about Harvard University and on the other side is a poor man’s son working hard to change the country’s economy (Ek taraf vo hain jo Harvard(Univ.)ki baat karte hain or ek taraf ye gareeb ka beta hardwork se desh ki economy badalne me laga hai), said PM on GDP

1:30 pm: Its written on UP Government’s website, “life in UP is short and uncertain, in this respect UP resembles Saharan Africa”: PM in Maharajganj

1:28 pm: I started Swachh Bharat Abhyan across India, but people of UP took it to another level by cleaning all dirt from politics in the state: PM

1:27 pm: The calculation in five phases of elections reflect that the people of UP are going to avenge the 15 years of SP’s rule. Those who looted UP, people will take revenge on them for all that they have done. (5 phases ka hisaab lagg chuka hai, UP ki janta 15 saal ka badla le rahi hai. Jinhone UP ko loota unse log chun-chun ke badla lenge) PM Modi

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd 
