20170123 
Jallikattu Bill passed in Tamil Nadu Assembly as protests turn violent 
23-1-2017 
Policemen detain students who were holding a protest demanding a permanent solution for holding the Jallikattu. Policemen detain students who were holding a protest demanding a permanent solution for holding the Jallikattu.

The Jallikattu Bill, that replaces an ordinance and legalizes the bull taming sport, was unanimously passed by the Tamil Nadu assembly during a special session on Monday as the protests by the sport lovers took a violent turn. The bill wa stabled by chief minister O Panneerselvam and was passed within a few minutes. Earlier in the day, students leading the Jallikattu protests clashed with police and torched several vehicles after they were forcibly evicted from the Marina beach, the epicenter of the protests. The pro-Jallikattu protesters set on fire the vehicles parked at the Ice House police station and attacked police personnel with bricks and stones.

A large posse of police personnel swooped on the huge crowd which had massed at the sprawling beach since January 17 and began to drag away the young protesters. There was bedlam as others tried to pull back those being taken away. The police then used batons to disperse the mobs. As people ran from the beach and collected on nearby streets, there was more violence. The trouble was intense in Triplicane area near the beach. The police also fired tear gas to disperse the crowds who assembled on several roads leading to the beach and hurled stones at security personnel. All routes leading to the Marina have been cordoned off.

In Madurai too, youths who have been staging protests demanding the lifting of the 2014 Supreme Court ban on Jallikattu, the traditional bull taming sport, fought with police on the streets. The eviction in Chennai began after week-long protests across Tamil Nadu.

Also read: Gored by bulls, 2 die in Pudukottai; protesters block CM’s way near Madurai

The demonstrators want an amendment to the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act so that Jallikattu can be held without legal hurdles. The police action came as the Tamil Nadu assembly met for the first time this year with Governor C.H. Vidyasagar Rao’s address.

In Coimbatore, the police pounced on a protester who stood up with a kerosene canister and threatened to self-immolate. They were successful in taking away the inflammable liquid.

The government on Sunday organised Jallikattu in several places following the promulgation of an ordinance. The demonstrators want the central government to take out bulls from the list of performing animals. P. Rajasekhar, President of the Jallikattu Pathukaapu Peravai, has urged people to call off their agitation. ‘Hip-Hop Tamizha’ Adhi, a rap musician whose song in support of Jallikattu attracted the protesters, distanced himself from the crowds as they were moving in a different direction, he said.

While many are upset with the People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) for opposing Jallikattu, in most protest venues slogans were raised against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam. Some placards held by a few protesters were vulgar and there were random calls demanding a separate Tamil land.

Meanwhile, DMK leader M.K. Stalin condemned the police action as authoritarian. PMK leader Anbumani Ramadoss said the party was withdrawing its plans to hold Jallikattu protests on January 26 as the government had passed an ordinance permitting the sport. Celebrities from Tamil film industries including superstar Rajinikanth and Kamal Hassan too urged to protesters fro peace and asked them to return home.

(With inputs from agencies)

© The Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd 
